DESCRIPTION:
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONSThis Non-Provisional Utility patent application is a Continuation application which claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 16/371,091, filed Mar. 31, 2019, entitled “Women's Bulletproof Ballistic Shield Handbag,” the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention is in the technical field of personal safety devices, firearm armor and protection from firearms shots. More particularly, the present invention is in the field of using bullet proof vest to protect body from gun shots. Conventional bullet proof vests are heavy and bulky and designed more for law enforcement and military personnel for field operations.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention is a hand-carry bag, a purse, that can be converted fast and easy into a bullet-proof vest. Present invention is an every-day item, that looks and can be used like many other similar bags and purses, except that it can quickly be turned into a bullet proof vest that protects vital organs in human body from gun shots from the front and from the back. Present invention can also be used as a hand-held shield when time does not allow to convert it to a vest.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSFIGS. 1 and 2are isometric views of safety purse of the present invention;FIG. 3is an isometric view of the safety purse of present invention with front shield partially pulled out; andFIG. 4is an isometric view of a person wearing the fully strapped safety purse of the present invention.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTIONReferring now toFIGS. 1 and 2in details there is shown a hand-carry purse2withactual purse body4, carryinghandles12and14,zipper5closing central compartment ofpurse4andzipper3closing side compartment16ofpurse body4. Saidside compartment16has additional space in it for holding Kevlar plate that always stays inside thatcompartment16and is hidden from view. Purse hasopposite side6with side opening7that holds a removable Kevlarfront shield8. Said side opening7under normal every day use is latched closed with slidinglatch10. InFIG. 1Balso shown bottom ofpurse2withlegs20and end ofretractable waist strap18.Referring now to the invention in more detail, inFIG. 3there is shown thepurse2with Kevlarfront shield8partially pulled out ofside compartment7.Now referring toFIG. 4in more details shown is a human bodyFIG. 30withsafety purse2in position to be put on and fully strapped. Shown issafety purse4positioned at the back of humanFIG. 30with front Kevlarplate8fully retracted from thepurse4. Said front Kevlarplate8is attached topurse4with front straps26andrear straps24with adjustment buckles28between the front straps26andrear straps24. InFIG. 3Bshown also is partially retractedwaist strap18from the bottom ofpurse4.FIG. 4shows thepurse4fully converted into body armor and strapped securely to human bodyFIG. 30. There is shown a front Kevlarplate8positioned at the front ofFIG. 30to protect chest area34and vital upper body organs from gun shots. Front Kevlarplate8is secured to thebody30withrear shoulder straps24, adjustment buckles28and front shoulder straps26, which have free adjustment ends36. Pulling said adjustment ends36will allow to adjust vertical position of front Kevlarplate8.Said front Kevlarplate8is also strapped to thebody30with fully retractedwaist strap18, which passes around figure'swaist line32, around front of Kevlarplate8, loops through either one or both handles12and14ofpurse4and returns to be secured to itself with Velcro.The advantages of the present invention include, without limitation, that it provides without limitation all functionalities of a conventional bag or purse and provides fast and easy way to be converted into a bullet proof vest.In broad embodiment, the present invention is an ordinary-looking hand carry purse or bag, it cannot be distinguished from other similar items visually. Yet, current invention provides unique features allowing to convert it into a body armor, bullet proof vest that may save life. While the foregoing written description of the invention enables one of ordinary skill to make and use what is considered presently to be the best mode thereof, those of ordinary skill will understand and appreciate the existence of variations, combinations, and equivalents of the specific embodiment, method, and examples herein. The invention should therefore not be limited by the above described embodiment, method, and examples, but by all embodiments and methods within the scope and spirit of the invention as described and claimed.

This Non-Provisional Utility patent application is a Continuation application which claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 16/371,091, filed Mar. 31, 2019, entitled “Women's Bulletproof Ballistic Shield Handbag,” the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is in the technical field of personal safety devices, firearm armor and protection from firearms shots. More particularly, the present invention is in the field of using bullet proof vest to protect body from gun shots. Conventional bullet proof vests are heavy and bulky and designed more for law enforcement and military personnel for field operations.

The present invention is a hand-carry bag, a purse, that can be converted fast and easy into a bullet-proof vest. Present invention is an every-day item, that looks and can be used like many other similar bags and purses, except that it can quickly be turned into a bullet proof vest that protects vital organs in human body from gun shots from the front and from the back. Present invention can also be used as a hand-held shield when time does not allow to convert it to a vest.

FIGS. 1 and 2are isometric views of safety purse of the present invention;

FIG. 3is an isometric view of the safety purse of present invention with front shield partially pulled out; and

FIG. 4is an isometric view of a person wearing the fully strapped safety purse of the present invention.

Referring now toFIGS. 1 and 2in details there is shown a hand-carry purse2withactual purse body4, carryinghandles12and14,zipper5closing central compartment ofpurse4andzipper3closing side compartment16ofpurse body4. Saidside compartment16has additional space in it for holding Kevlar plate that always stays inside thatcompartment16and is hidden from view. Purse hasopposite side6with side opening7that holds a removable Kevlarfront shield8. Said side opening7under normal every day use is latched closed with slidinglatch10. InFIG. 1Balso shown bottom ofpurse2withlegs20and end ofretractable waist strap18.

Referring now to the invention in more detail, inFIG. 3there is shown thepurse2with Kevlarfront shield8partially pulled out ofside compartment7.

Now referring toFIG. 4in more details shown is a human bodyFIG. 30withsafety purse2in position to be put on and fully strapped. Shown issafety purse4positioned at the back of humanFIG. 30with front Kevlarplate8fully retracted from thepurse4. Said front Kevlarplate8is attached topurse4with front straps26andrear straps24with adjustment buckles28between the front straps26andrear straps24. InFIG. 3Bshown also is partially retractedwaist strap18from the bottom ofpurse4.

FIG. 4shows thepurse4fully converted into body armor and strapped securely to human bodyFIG. 30. There is shown a front Kevlarplate8positioned at the front ofFIG. 30to protect chest area34and vital upper body organs from gun shots. Front Kevlarplate8is secured to thebody30withrear shoulder straps24, adjustment buckles28and front shoulder straps26, which have free adjustment ends36. Pulling said adjustment ends36will allow to adjust vertical position of front Kevlarplate8.

Said front Kevlarplate8is also strapped to thebody30with fully retractedwaist strap18, which passes around figure'swaist line32, around front of Kevlarplate8, loops through either one or both handles12and14ofpurse4and returns to be secured to itself with Velcro.

The advantages of the present invention include, without limitation, that it provides without limitation all functionalities of a conventional bag or purse and provides fast and easy way to be converted into a bullet proof vest.

In broad embodiment, the present invention is an ordinary-looking hand carry purse or bag, it cannot be distinguished from other similar items visually. Yet, current invention provides unique features allowing to convert it into a body armor, bullet proof vest that may save life. While the foregoing written description of the invention enables one of ordinary skill to make and use what is considered presently to be the best mode thereof, those of ordinary skill will understand and appreciate the existence of variations, combinations, and equivalents of the specific embodiment, method, and examples herein. The invention should therefore not be limited by the above described embodiment, method, and examples, but by all embodiments and methods within the scope and spirit of the invention as described and claimed.