DESCRIPTION:
The present disclosure relates to an ostomy system, devices thereof, method of manufacturing and method for monitoring an ostomy appliance. The ostomy appliance system comprises an ostomy appliance and an ostomy monitor device. In particular, the present disclosure relates to leakage classification and/or detection and monitoring of the operation of an ostomy appliance.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSThe accompanying drawings are included to provide a further understanding of embodiments and are incorporated into and a part of this specification. The drawings illustrate embodiments and together with the description serve to explain principles of embodiments. Other embodiments and many of the intended advantages of embodiments will be readily appreciated as they become better understood by reference to the following detailed description. The elements of the drawings are not necessarily to scale relative to each other. Like reference numerals designate corresponding similar parts.FIG.1illustrates an exemplary ostomy system,FIG.2illustrates an exemplary monitor device of the ostomy system,FIG.3is an exploded view of a base plate of an ostomy appliance,FIG.4is an exploded view of an exemplary electrode assembly,FIG.5is a proximal view of parts of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part,FIG.6is a distal view of an exemplary electrode configuration,FIG.7is a distal view of an exemplary masking element,FIG.8is a distal view of an exemplary first adhesive layer,FIG.9is a proximal view of the first adhesive layer ofFIG.8,FIG.10is a distal view of a part of the base plate and/or a sensor assembly part including a monitor interface,FIG.11illustrates an exploded view of an exemplary base plate,FIG.12illustrates an exploded view of an exemplary electrode assembly,FIG.13illustrates an exploded view of an exemplary electrode assembly,FIG.14shows an exemplary electrode configuration,FIG.15shows a schematic representation of part of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part,FIG.16shows a schematic representation of part of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part,FIG.17shows a schematic representation of part of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part,FIG.18shows a schematic representation of part of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part, andFIG.19shows a flowchart of an exemplary method.DETAILED DESCRIPTIONVarious exemplary embodiments and details are described hereinafter, with reference to the figures when relevant. It should be noted that the figures may or may not be drawn to scale and that elements of similar structures or functions are represented by like reference numerals throughout the figures. It should also be noted that the figures are only intended to facilitate the description of the embodiments. They are not intended as an exhaustive description of the invention or as a limitation on the scope of the invention. In addition, an illustrated embodiment needs not have all the aspects or advantages shown. An aspect or an advantage described in conjunction with a particular embodiment is not necessarily limited to that embodiment and can be practiced in any other embodiments even if not so illustrated, or if not so explicitly described.Throughout this disclosure, the words “stoma” and “ostomy” are used to denote a surgically created opening bypassing the intestines or urinary tract system of a person. The words are used interchangeably, and no differentiated meaning is intended. The same applies for any words or phrases derived from these, e.g. “stomal”, “ostomies” etc. Also, the solid and liquid wastes emanating from the stoma may be referred to as both stomal “output,” “waste(s),” and “fluids” interchangeably. A subject having undergone ostomy surgery may be referred to as “ostomist” or “ostomate”—moreover, also as “patient” or “user”. However, in some cases “user” may also relate or refer to a health care professional (HCP), such as a surgeon or an ostomy care nurse or others. In those cases, it will either be explicitly stated, or be implicit from the context that the “user” is not the “patient” him- or herself.In the following, whenever referring to proximal side or surface of a layer, an element, a device or part of a device, the referral is to the skin-facing side or surface, when a user wears the ostomy appliance. Likewise, whenever referring to the distal side or surface of a layer, an element, a device or part of a device, the referral is to the side or surface facing away from the skin, when a user wears the ostomy appliance. In other words, the proximal side or surface is the side or surface closest to the user, when the appliance is fitted on a user and the distal side is the opposite side or surface—the side or surface furthest away from the user in use.The axial direction is defined as the direction of the stoma, when a user wears the appliance. Thus, the axial direction is generally perpendicular to the skin or abdominal surface of the user.The radial direction is defined as perpendicular to the axial direction. In some sentences, the words “inner” and “outer” may be used. These qualifiers should generally be perceived with respect to the radial direction, such that a reference to an “outer” element means that the element is farther away from a centre portion of the ostomy appliance than an element referenced as “inner”. In addition, “innermost” should be interpreted as the portion of a component forming a centre of the component and/or being adjacent to the centre of the component. In analogy, “outermost” should be interpreted as a portion of a component forming an outer edge or outer contour of a component and/or being adjacent to that outer edge or outer contour.The use of the word “substantially” as a qualifier to certain features or effects in this disclosure is intended to simply mean that any deviations are within tolerances that would normally be expected by the skilled person in the relevant field.The use of the word “generally” as a qualifier to certain features or effects in this disclosure is intended to simply mean—for a structural feature: that a majority or major portion of such feature exhibits the characteristic in question, and—for a functional feature or an effect: that a majority of outcomes involving the characteristic provide the effect, but that exceptionally outcomes do no provide the effect.The present disclosure relates to an ostomy system and devices thereof, such as an ostomy appliance, a base plate for an ostomy appliance, a monitor device, and optionally one or more accessory devices. Further, methods related to the ostomy system and devices thereof are disclosed. An accessory device (also referred to as an external device) may be a mobile phone or other handheld device. An accessory device may be a personal electronic device, e.g. a wearable, such as a watch or other wrist-worn electronic device. An accessory device may be a docking station. The docking station may be configured to electrically and/or mechanically couple the monitor device to the docking station. The docking station may be configured for charging the monitor device and/or configured for transferring data between the monitor device and the docking station. The ostomy system may comprise a server device. The server device may be operated and/or controlled by the ostomy appliance manufacturer and/or a service centre.The present disclosure provides an ostomy system and devices thereof, such as an ostomy appliance, a base plate for an ostomy appliance, a monitor device, and optionally one or more accessory devices which either alone or together facilitate reliable determination of the nature, severity and rapidness of moisture propagation in the adhesive material provided for attaching the base plate to the skin surface of a user. Depending on the nature of the pattern of moisture propagation in the adhesive, the ostomy system and devices thereof enable providing information to the user about the type of failure, and in turn enable providing an indication to the user of the severity and thus the remaining time frame for replacing the ostomy appliance without experiencing severe leakage and/or skin damage.The ostomy appliance comprises a base plate and an ostomy pouch (also referred to as an ostomy bag). The ostomy appliance may be a colostomy appliance, an ileostomy appliance or a urostomy appliance. The ostomy appliance may be a two-part ostomy appliance, i.e. the base plate and the ostomy pouch may be releasably coupled e.g. with a mechanical and/or an adhesive coupling, e.g. to allow that a plurality of ostomy pouches can be utilized (exchanged) with one base plate. Further, a two-part ostomy appliance may facilitate correct application of the base plate to skin, e.g. to an improved user sight of the stomal region. The ostomy appliance may be a one-part ostomy appliance, i.e. the base plate and the ostomy pouch may be fixedly attached to each other. The base plate is configured for coupling to a user's stoma and/or skin surrounding the stoma, such as a peristomal skin area.The ostomy appliance includes a base plate, such as a monolithic, one-piece base plate, e.g. integrated with a sensor assembly part, or a base plate and a separate sensor assembly part, such as a sensor assembly part to be subsequently applied to a base plate. For example, to allow an arbitrary base plate, such as a conventional base plate, to achieve the features as described herein. Features as described with respect to the base plate herein may be provided by a sensor assembly part to be applied to a base plate, e.g. by the user. A sensor assembly part may be adapted to adhere to an ostomy plate.A disclosed method of attaching a base plate to a user's stoma and/or skin surrounding the stoma, such as the peristomal skin area, may comprise attaching a sensor assembly part to a base plate and attaching the base plate, e.g. together with the attached sensor assembly part, to the user's stoma and/or skin surrounding the stoma, such as the peristomal skin area. Alternatively, the method of attaching the base plate to the user's stoma and/or skin surrounding the stoma may comprise attaching the sensor assembly part to the user's stoma and/or skin surrounding the stoma and attaching the base plate to the user's stoma and/or skin surrounding the stoma above the attached sensor assembly part.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part comprises a first adhesive layer, also denoted center adhesive layer. During use, the first adhesive layer adheres to the user's skin (peristomal area) and/or to additional seals, such as sealing paste, sealing tape and/or sealing ring. Thus, the first adhesive layer may be configured for attachment of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part to the skin surface of a user. The first adhesive layer may have a stomal opening, such as a first adhesive stomal opening, with a center point.The first adhesive layer may be made of a first composition. The first composition may comprise one or more polyisobutenes and/or styrene-isoprene-styrene. The first composition may comprise one or more hydrocolloids. The first composition may comprise one or more water soluble or water swellable hydrocolloids.The first composition may be a pressure sensitive adhesive composition suitable for medical purposes comprising a rubbery elastomeric base and one or more water soluble or water swellable hydrocolloids. The first composition may comprise one or more polybutenes, one or more styrene copolymers, one or more hydrocolloids, or any combination thereof. The combination of the adhesive properties of the polybutenes and the absorbing properties of the hydrocolloids renders the first composition suitable for use in ostomy appliances. The styrene copolymer may for example be a styrene-butadiene-styrene block copolymer or a styrene-isoprene-styrene block copolymer. Preferably, one or more styrene-isoprene-styrene (SIS) block type copolymers are employed. The amount of styrene block-copolymer may be from 5% to 20% of the total adhesive composition. The butene component is suitably a conjugated butadiene polymer selected from polybutadiene, polyisoprene. The polybutenes are preferably present in an amount of from 35-50% of the total adhesive composition. Preferably, the polybutene is polyisobutylene (PIB). Suitable hydrocolloids for incorporation in the first composition are selected from naturally occurring hydrocolloids, semisynthetic hydrocolloids and synthetic hydrocolloids. The first composition may comprise 20-60% hydrocolloids. A preferred hydrocolloid is carboxymethylcellulose (CMC). The first composition may optionally contain other components, such as fillers, tackifiers, plasticizers, and other additives.The first adhesive layer may have a plurality of sensor point openings. A sensor point opening of the first adhesive layer is optionally configured to overlap a part of an electrode, e.g. to form a sensor point.The sensor point openings of the first adhesive layer may comprise primary sensor point openings. The primary sensor point openings may comprise one or more primary first sensor point openings and one or more primary second sensor point openings, the primary first sensor point openings configured to overlap parts of an electrode and the primary second sensor point openings configured to overlap parts of another electrode different from the electrode at least partly overlapped by the primary first sensor point openings.The sensor point openings of the first adhesive layer may comprise secondary sensor point openings. The secondary sensor point openings may comprise one or more secondary first sensor point openings and one or more secondary second sensor point openings, the secondary first sensor point openings configured to overlap parts of an electrode and the secondary second sensor point openings configured to overlap parts of another electrode different from the electrode at least partly overlapped by the secondary first sensor point openings.The sensor point openings of the first adhesive layer may comprise tertiary sensor point openings. The tertiary sensor point openings may comprise one or more tertiary first sensor point openings and one or more tertiary second sensor point openings, the tertiary first sensor point openings configured to overlap parts of an electrode and the tertiary second sensor point openings configured to overlap parts of another electrode different from the electrode at least partly overlapped by the tertiary first sensor point openings.The first adhesive layer may have a substantially uniform thickness. The first adhesive layer may have a thickness in the range from 0.1 mm to 1.5 mm, e.g. in the range from 0.2 mm to 1.2 mm.The first adhesive layer may have a primary thickness in a primary part of the first adhesive layer, e.g. in a primary region within a primary radial distance or in a primary radial distance range from the center point of the stomal opening. The primary thickness may be in the range from 0.2 mm to 1.5 mm. such as about 1.0 mm. The primary radial distance may be in the range from 20 mm to 50 mm, such as in the range from 25 mm to 35 mm, e.g. 30 mm.The first adhesive layer may have a secondary thickness in a secondary part of the first adhesive layer, e.g. in a secondary region outside a secondary radial distance or in a secondary radial distance range from the center point of the stomal opening. The secondary thickness may be in the range from 0.2 mm to 1.0 mm, such as about 0.5 mm. The secondary radial distance may be in the range from 20 mm to 50 mm, such as in the range from 25 mm to 35 mm, e.g. 30 mm.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a second layer. The second layer may be a second adhesive layer, also denoted rim adhesive layer. The second layer may have a second radial extension that is larger than a first radial extension of the first adhesive layer at least in a first angular range of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. Accordingly, a part of a proximal surface of the second layer may be configured for attachment to the skin surface of a user. The part of a proximal surface of the second layer configured for attachment to the skin surface of a user is also denoted the skin attachment surface of the second adhesive layer. The second layer may have a stomal opening, such as a second layer stomal opening and/or a second adhesive stomal opening, with a center point.The second adhesive layer may be made of a second composition. The second composition may comprise one or more polyisobutenes and/or styrene-isoprene-styrene. The second composition may comprise one or more hydrocolloids. The second composition may comprise one or more water soluble or water swellable hydrocolloids.The second composition may be a pressure sensitive adhesive composition suitable for medical purposes comprising a rubbery elastomeric base and one or more water soluble or water swellable hydrocolloids. The second composition may comprise one or more polybutenes, one or more styrene copolymers, one or more hydrocolloids, or any combination thereof. The combination of the adhesive properties of the polybutenes and the absorbing properties of the hydrocolloids renders the second composition suitable for use in ostomy appliances. The styrene copolymer may for example be a styrene-butadiene-styrene block copolymer or a styrene-isoprene-styrene block copolymer. Preferably, one or more styrene-isoprene-styrene (SIS) block type copolymers are employed. The amount of styrene block-copolymer may be from 5% to 20% of the total adhesive composition. The butene component is suitably a conjugated butadiene polymer selected from polybutadiene, polyisoprene. The polybutenes are preferably present in an amount of from 35-50% of the total adhesive composition. Preferably, the polybutene is polyisobutylene (PIB). Suitable hydrocolloids for incorporation in the second composition are selected from naturally occurring hydrocolloids, semisynthetic hydrocolloids and synthetic hydrocolloids. The second composition may comprise 20-60% hydrocolloids. A preferred hydrocolloid is carboxymethylcellulose (CMC). The second composition may optionally contain other components, such as fillers, tackifiers, plasticizers, and other additives.Different ratio of contents may change properties of the first and/or second adhesive layers. The second adhesive layer and the first adhesive layer may have different properties. The second adhesive layer (second composition) and the first adhesive layer (first composition) may have different ratios of polyisobutenes, styrene-isoprene-styrene, and/or hydrocolloids. For example, the second adhesive layer may provide a stronger attachment to the skin compared to attachment to the skin provided by the first adhesive layer. Alternatively or additionally, the second adhesive layer may be thinner than the first adhesive layer. Alternatively or additionally, the second adhesive layer may be less water and/or sweat absorbing than the first adhesive layer. Alternatively or additionally, the second adhesive layer may be less mouldable than the first adhesive layer. The second adhesive layer may provide a second barrier against leakage.The second layer may have a substantially uniform thickness. The second layer may have a thickness in the range from 0.1 mm to 1.5 mm, e.g. in the range from 0.2 mm to 1.0 mm, such as 0.5 mm, 0.6 mm, or 0.7 mm.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise one or more electrodes, such as a plurality of electrodes, such as two, three, four, five, six, seven or more electrodes. The sensor assembly part may be applied to the base plate, such as to provide the base plate with the one or more electrodes.The electrodes, e.g. some or all the electrodes, may be arranged between the first adhesive layer and the second adhesive layer. The electrodes may be arranged in an electrode assembly, e.g. an electrode layer. An electrode comprises a connection part for connecting the electrodes to other components and/or interface terminals. An electrode may comprise one or more conductor parts and/or one or more sensing parts. The electrode assembly may be arranged between the first adhesive layer and the second adhesive layer. The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, e.g. the electrode assembly, may comprise a first electrode, a second electrode and optionally a third electrode. The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, e.g. the electrode assembly, may comprise a fourth electrode and/or a fifth electrode. The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, e.g. the electrode assembly, optionally comprises a sixth electrode. The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, e.g. the electrode assembly, may comprise a ground electrode. The ground electrode may comprise a first electrode part. The first electrode part of the ground electrode may form a ground for the first electrode. The ground electrode may comprise a second electrode part. The second electrode part of the ground electrode may form a ground for the second electrode. The ground electrode may comprise a third electrode part. The third electrode part of the ground electrode may form a ground for the third electrode. The ground electrode may comprise a fourth electrode part. The fourth electrode part of the ground electrode may form a ground for the fourth electrode and/or the fifth electrode.The ground electrode or electrode parts of the ground electrode may be configured as or form a (common) reference electrode for some or all of the other electrodes of the electrode assembly. The ground electrode may also be denoted reference electrode.The electrodes are electrically conductive and may comprise one or more of metallic (e.g. silver, copper, gold, titanium, aluminium, stainless steel), ceramic (e.g. ITO), polymeric (e.g. PEDOT, PANI, PPy), and carbonaceous (e.g. carbon black, carbon nanotube, carbon fibre, graphene, graphite) materials.Two electrodes of the electrode assembly may form a sensor. The first electrode and the ground electrode (e.g. first electrode part of the ground electrode) may form a first sensor or first electrode pair. The second electrode and the ground electrode (e.g. second electrode part of the ground electrode) may form a second sensor or second electrode pair. The third electrode and the ground electrode (e.g. third electrode part of the ground electrode) may form a third sensor or third electrode pair. The fourth electrode and the ground electrode (e.g. fourth electrode part of the ground electrode) may form a fourth sensor or fourth electrode pair. The fifth electrode and the ground electrode (e.g. fifth electrode part of the ground electrode) may form a fifth sensor or fifth electrode pair.The first electrode may form an open loop. The second electrode may form an open loop and/or the third electrode may form an open loop. The fourth electrode may form an open loop. The fifth electrode may form an open loop. Open loop electrode(s) enables electrode arrangement in few or a single electrode layer.The electrode assembly may comprise a support layer, also denoted a support film. One or more electrodes may be formed, e.g. printed, on the proximal side of the support layer. One or more electrodes may be formed, e.g. printed, on the distal side of the support layer. The electrode assembly, such as the support layer of the electrode assembly, may have a stomal opening, such as an electrode assembly stomal opening and/or a support layer stomal opening, with a center point.The support layer may comprise polymeric (e.g. polyurethane, PTFE, PVDF) and/or ceramic (e.g. alumina, silica) materials. In one or more exemplary base plates and/or sensor assembly parts, the support layer is made of thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU). The support layer material may be made of or comprise one or more of polyester, a thermoplastic elastomer (TPE), polyimide, polyimide, Ethylene-vinyl acetate (EVA), polyurea, and silicones.Exemplary thermoplastic elastomers of the support layer are styrenic block copolymers (TPS, TPE-s), thermoplastic polyolefinelastomers (TPO, TPE-o), thermoplastic Vulcanizates (TPV, TPE-v), thermoplastic polyurethanes (TPU), thermoplastic copolyester (TPC, TPE-E), and thermoplastic polyamides (TPA, TPE-A).The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, such as the electrode assembly may comprise a masking element configured to insulate at least parts of the electrodes from the first adhesive layer of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The masking element may comprise one or more, such as a plurality of, sensor point openings. The sensor point openings may comprise primary sensor point openings and/or secondary sensor point openings. The sensor point openings may comprise tertiary sensor point opening(s). The sensor point openings may comprise quaternary sensor point opening(s) A sensor point opening of the masking element overlaps at least one electrode of the electrode assembly when seen in the axial direction, e.g. to form a sensor point. For example, a primary sensor point opening may overlap a part of the ground electrode and/or a part of the fourth electrode. A secondary sensor point opening may overlap a part of the fourth electrode and/or a part of the fifth electrode. A tertiary sensor point opening may overlap a part of the fifth electrode and/or a part of the ground electrode.The masking element may comprise one or more, such as a plurality of, terminal openings. The masking element may comprise polymeric (e.g. polyurethane, PTFE, PVDF) and/or ceramic (e.g. alumina, silica) materials. In one or more exemplary base plates and/or sensor assembly parts, the masking element is made of or comprises thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU). In one or more exemplary base plates and/or sensor assembly parts, the masking element is made of or comprises polyester. The masking element material may be made of or comprise one or more of polyester, a thermoplastic elastomer (TPE), polyimide, polyimide, Ethylene-vinyl acetate (EVA), polyurea, and silicones.Exemplary thermoplastic elastomers of the masking element are styrenic block copolymers (TPS, TPE-s), thermoplastic polyolefinelastomers (TPO, TPE-o), thermoplastic Vulcanizates (TPV, TPE-v), thermoplastic polyurethanes (TPU), thermoplastic copolyester (TPC, TPE-E), and thermoplastic polyamides (TPA, TPE-A).The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a first intermediate element. The first intermediate element may be arranged between the electrodes/electrode layer and the first adhesive layer and/or between the second layer and the first adhesive layer. The first intermediate layer may be made of an insulating material.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a release liner. The release liner is a protective layer that protects adhesive layer(s) during transport and storage and is peeled off by the user prior to applying the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part on the skin. The release liner may have a stomal opening, such as a release liner stomal opening, with a center point.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a top layer. The top layer is a protective layer protecting the adhesive layer(s) from external strains and stress when the user wears the ostomy appliance. The electrodes, e.g. some or all the electrodes, may be arranged between the first adhesive layer and the top layer. The top layer may have a stomal opening, such as a top layer stomal opening, with a center point. The top layer may have a thickness in the range from 0.01 mm to 1.0 mm, e.g. in the range from 0.02 mm to 0.2 mm, such as 0.04 mm.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a monitor interface. The monitor interface may be configured for electrically and/or mechanically connecting the ostomy appliance (base plate and/or sensor assembly part) to the monitor device. The monitor interface may be configured for wirelessly connecting the ostomy appliance (base plate and/or sensor assembly part) to the monitor device. Thus, the monitor interface of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part is configured to electrically and/or mechanically couple the ostomy appliance and the monitor device.The monitor interface of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise, e.g. as part of a first connector of the monitor interface, a coupling part for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling between the monitor device and the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The coupling part may be configured to engage with a coupling part of the monitor device for releasably coupling the monitor device to the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.The monitor interface of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise, e.g. as part of a first connector of the monitor interface, a plurality of terminals, such as two, three, four, five, six, seven or more terminals, for forming electrical connections with respective terminals of the monitor device. The monitor interface may comprise a ground terminal element forming a ground terminal. The monitor interface may comprise a first terminal element forming a first terminal, a second terminal element forming a second terminal and optionally a third terminal element forming a third terminal. The monitor interface may comprise a fourth terminal element forming a fourth terminal and/or a fifth terminal element forming a fifth terminal. The monitor interface optionally comprises a sixth terminal element forming a sixth terminal. The terminal elements of the monitor interface may contact respective electrodes of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, such as the electrode assembly of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The first intermediate element may be arranged between the terminal elements and the first adhesive layer. The first intermediate element may cover or overlap terminal element(s) of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part when seen in the axial direction. Thus, the first adhesive layer may be protected or experience more evenly distributed mechanical stress from the terminal elements of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, in turn reducing the risk of terminal elements penetrating or otherwise damaging the first adhesive layer. The first intermediate element may protect or mechanically and/or electrically shield the first adhesive layer from the terminal elements of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.A terminal element, such as the ground terminal element, the first terminal element, the second terminal element, the third terminal element, the fourth terminal element, the fifth terminal element and/or the sixth terminal element, may comprise a distal end and a proximal end. A terminal element, such as the ground terminal element, the first terminal element, the second terminal element, the third terminal element, the fourth terminal element, the fifth terminal element and/or the sixth terminal element, may comprise a distal part, a centre part, and/or a proximal part. The distal part may be between the distal end and the centre part. The proximal part may be between the proximal end and the centre part. A terminal element, such as the ground terminal element, the first terminal element, the second terminal element, the third terminal element, the fourth terminal element, the fifth terminal element and/or the sixth terminal element, may be gold plated copper.The base plate may comprise a coupling ring or other coupling member for coupling an ostomy pouch to the base plate (two-part ostomy appliance). The center point may be defined as a center of the coupling ring.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may have a stomal opening, e.g. with a center point. The stomal opening of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may be formed collectively of stomal opening(s) of the layers of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, such as of the top layer, the first adhesive layer, the second layer and/or the sensor assembly part. The stomal opening(s) of the layers of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, such as of the top layer, the first adhesive layer, the second layer and/or the sensor assembly part may be aligned to form the stomal opening of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The stomal opening may be a through-going passage of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The stomal opening may be arranged substantially in the center of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The stomal opening(s) of the layers of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may be arranged substantially in the center of the respective layer. The stomal opening may be configured to receive a stoma of the user and/or the stomal opening may be configured to allow output from the stoma to pass through the stomal opening an into an ostomy pouch attached to the base plate. For example, the stomal opening may be configured to allow passage of output from a proximal side of the base plate and/or sensor assembly part to a distal side of the base plate and/or sensor assembly part. The size and/or shape of the stomal opening may typically be adjusted by the user or nurse before application of the ostomy appliance to accommodate the user's stoma. In one or more exemplary base plates or sensor assembly parts, the user forms the stomal opening during preparation of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part for application.The monitor device comprises a processor and one or more interfaces, such as a first interface and/or a second interface. The monitor device may comprise a memory for storing ostomy data.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the processor is configured to apply a processing scheme, the first interface is connected to the processor and the memory, and the first interface is configured for collecting ostomy data from the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part coupled to the first interface. The ostomy data may comprise one or more, such as all, of first ostomy data from a first electrode pair of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, second ostomy data from a second electrode pair of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, and third ostomy data from a third electrode pair of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. A second interface is connected to the processor. To apply a processing scheme may comprise one or more of obtain first parameter data based on the first ostomy data; obtain second parameter data based on the second ostomy data; and obtain third parameter data based on the third ostomy data. To apply a processing scheme may comprise determine an operating state of the base plate of the ostomy appliance based on one or more, such as all, of the first parameter data, the second parameter data and the third parameter data. The operating state may be indicative of a degree of radial erosion of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, such as of the first adhesive layer, and/or an acute leakage risk for the ostomy appliance. The monitor device is configured to, in accordance with a determination that the operating state is a first operating state, transmit a first monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the first operating state of the base plate via the second interface; and/or in accordance with a determination that the operating state is a second operating state, transmit a second monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the second operating state of the base plate via the second interface.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the first operating state of the base plate corresponds to a situation wherein the first adhesive layer of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part has experienced a first degree of radial erosion, e.g. the first adhesive layer is eroded to a first radial distance of the first electrode pair but not to a second radial distance of the second electrode pair.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the second operating state of the base plate corresponds to a situation wherein the first adhesive layer of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part has experienced a second degree of radial erosion, e.g. the first adhesive layer is eroded to the second radial distance of the second electrode pair but not to a third radial distance of the third electrode pair.To obtain first parameter data based on the first ostomy data may comprise determining one or more first parameters based on the first ostomy data. To obtain second parameter data based on the second ostomy data may comprise determining one or more second parameters based on the second ostomy data. To obtain third parameter data based on the third ostomy data may comprise determining one or more third parameters based on the third ostomy data. In one or more exemplary monitor devices, determination of an operating state may be based on one or more first parameters, such as first primary parameter and/or first secondary parameter of first parameter data. In one or more exemplary monitor devices, determination of an operating state may be based on one or more second parameters, such as second primary parameter and/or second secondary parameter of the second parameter data. In one or more exemplary monitor devices, determination of an operating state may be based on one or more third parameters, such as third primary parameter and/or third secondary parameter of the third parameter data. In one or more exemplary monitor devices, determination of an operating state may be based on one or more fourth parameters, such as fourth primary parameter and/or fourth secondary parameter of the fourth parameter data.The first parameter data, the second parameter data, and the third parameter data may be indicative of resistance between the first electrode pair, the second electrode pair, and the third electrode pair, respectively.The first parameter data, the second parameter data, and the third parameter data may be indicative of a rate of change in resistance between the first electrode pair, the second electrode pair, and the third electrode pair, respectively.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, to determine an operating state of the base plate is based on a first criteria set based on the first parameter data and/or the second parameter data, wherein the operating state is determined to be the first operating state if the first criteria set is satisfied. The first criteria set may comprise one or more first criteria based on one or more of first parameter data, second parameter data and third parameter data. The first criteria set may comprise a first primary criterion based on the first parameter data. The first criteria set may comprise a first secondary criterion based on the second parameter data. The first criteria set may comprise a first tertiary criterion based on the third parameter data.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, to determine an operating state of the base plate may be based on a first threshold set comprising one or a plurality of first threshold values. The first threshold set may comprise one or a plurality of threshold values, e.g. to be applied in the first criteria set. The first threshold set may comprise a first primary threshold value. The first threshold set may comprise a first secondary threshold value. The first threshold set may comprise a first tertiary threshold value.The first criteria set may be given by(P_1_1<TH_1_1),(P_2_1>TH_1_2), and(P_3_1>TH_1_3),wherein P_1_1 is a first primary parameter based on the first parameter data, TH_1_1 is a first primary threshold value, P_2_1 is a second primary parameter based on the second parameter data, TH_1_2 is a first secondary threshold value, P_3_1 is a third primary parameter based on the third parameter data, and TH_1_3 is a first tertiary threshold value, and wherein the first operating state is indicative of low degree of radial erosion on the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The first threshold values (TH_1_1, TH_1_2 and TH_1_3) may be the same or different, e.g. depending on the electrode configuration of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The first tertiary criterion (P_3_1<TH1_3) may be omitted in the first criteria set.The first primary parameter P_1_1 may be indicative of the resistance between the first electrode pair (first electrode and first electrode part of the ground electrode) of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.The second primary parameter may be indicative of the resistance between the second electrode pair (second electrode and second electrode part of the ground electrode) of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.The third primary parameter may be indicative of resistance between the third electrode pair (third electrode and third electrode part of the ground electrode) of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, to determine an operating state of the base plate is based on a second criteria set based on the second parameter data and/or the third parameter data, wherein the operating state is determined to be the second operating state if the second criteria set is satisfied. The second criteria set may be based on the first parameter data.The second criteria set may comprise one or more second criteria based on one or more of first parameter data, second parameter data and third parameter data. The second criteria set may comprise a second primary criterion based on the first parameter data. The second criteria set may comprise a second secondary criterion based on the second parameter data. The second criteria set may comprise a second tertiary criterion based on the third parameter data.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, to determine an operating state of the base plate is based on a second threshold set comprising one or a plurality of second threshold values. The second threshold set may comprise one or a plurality of threshold values, e.g. to be applied in the second criteria set. The second threshold set may comprise a second primary threshold value. The second threshold set may comprise a second secondary threshold value. The second threshold set may comprise a second tertiary threshold value.The second criteria set may be given by(P_1_1<TH_2_1),(P_2_1<TH_2_2), and(P_3_1>TH_2_3)wherein P_1_1 is a first primary parameter based on the first parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the first electrode pair, TH_2_1 is a second primary threshold value, P_2_1 is a second primary parameter based on the second parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the second electrode pair, TH_2_2 is a second secondary threshold value, P_3_1 is a third primary parameter based on the third parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the third electrode pair, TH_2_3 is a second tertiary threshold value, and wherein the second operating state is indicative of medium degree of radial erosion on the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The second threshold values (TH_2_1, TH_2_2 and TH_2_3) may be the same or different, e.g. depending on the electrode configuration of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The second primary criterion (P_1_1<TH_2_1) and/or the second tertiary criterion (P_3_1>TH_2_3) may be omitted in the second criteria set.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, to determine an operating state of the base plate is based on a default criteria set based on the first parameter data, wherein the operating state is determined to be the default operating state if the default criteria set is satisfied, and in accordance with a determination that the operating state is the default operating state, transmit a default monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the default operating state of the ostomy appliance.The default criteria set may be given by(P_1_1>TH_D_1),(P_2_1>TH_D_2), and(P_3_1>TH_D_3)wherein P_1_1 is a first primary parameter based on the first parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the first electrode pair, TH_D_1 is a default primary threshold value, P_2_1 is a second primary parameter based on the second parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the second electrode pair, TH_D_2 is a default secondary threshold value, P_3_1 is a third primary parameter based on the third parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the third electrode pair, TH_D_3 is a default tertiary threshold value, and wherein the default operating state is indicative of very low or no degree of radial erosion on the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The default threshold values (TH_D_1, TH_D_2 and TH_D_3) may be the same or different, e.g. depending on the electrode configuration of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, to determine an operating state of the base plate is based on a third criteria set based on the third parameter data, wherein the operating state is determined to be the third operating state if the third criteria set is satisfied, and in accordance with a determination that the operating state is the third operating state, transmit a third monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the third operating state of the ostomy appliance.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the third operating state of the base plate corresponds to a situation wherein the first adhesive layer of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part has experienced a third degree of radial erosion, e.g. the first adhesive layer is eroded to the third radial distance of the third electrode pair.The third criteria set may be given by(P_1_1<TH_3_1),(P_2_1<TH_3_2), and(P_3_1<TH_3_3)wherein P_1_1 is a first primary parameter based on the first parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the first electrode pair, TH_3_1 is a third primary threshold value, P_2_1 is a second primary parameter based on the second parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the second electrode pair, TH_3_2 is a third secondary threshold value, P_3_1 is a third primary parameter based on the third parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the third electrode pair, TH_3_3 is a third tertiary threshold value, and wherein the third operating state is indicative of high degree of radial erosion on the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The third threshold values (TH_3_1, TH_3_2 and TH_3_3) may be the same or different, e.g. depending on the electrode configuration of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The third primary criterion (P_1_1<TH_3_1) and/or the third secondary criterion (P_2_1<TH_3_2) may be omitted in the third criteria set.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the ostomy data comprises fourth ostomy data from a fourth electrode pair of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. To apply a processing scheme may comprise to obtain fourth parameter data based on the fourth ostomy data, and determine an operating state of the base plate of the ostomy appliance based on the fourth parameter data. The monitor device may be configured to, in accordance with a determination that the operating state is a fourth operating state, transmit a fourth monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the fourth operating state of the ostomy appliance.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the fourth operating state of the base plate corresponds to a situation, wherein the fourth electrode pair detects fluid, such as output, between the distal surface of first adhesive layer and the skin of the user at a fourth radial distance, and thus there is a high risk of leakage from the ostomy appliance in the fourth operating state.The fourth criteria set may be given by(P_4_1<TH_4_4)wherein P_4_1 is a fourth primary parameter based on the fourth parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the fourth electrode pair and TH_4_4 is a fourth quaternary threshold value, and wherein the fourth operating state is indicative of high risk of leakage from the ostomy appliance.The monitor device comprises a monitor device housing optionally made of a plastic material. The monitor device housing may be an elongate housing having a first end and a second end. The monitor device housing may have a length or maximum extension along a longitudinal axis in the range from 1 cm to 15 cm. The monitor device housing may have a width or maximum extension perpendicular to the longitudinal axis in the range from 0.5 cm to 3 cm. The monitor device housing may be curve-shaped.The monitor device comprises a first interface. The first interface may be configured as an appliance interface for electrically and/or mechanically connecting the monitor device to the ostomy appliance. Thus, the appliance interface is configured to electrically and/or mechanically couple the monitor device and the ostomy appliance. The first interface may be configured as an accessory device interface for electrically and/or mechanically connecting the monitor device to an accessory device, such as a docking station. The first interface may be configured for coupling to a docking station of the ostomy system, e.g. for charging the monitor device and/or for data transfer between the monitor device and the docking station.The first interface of the monitor device may comprise a plurality of terminals, such as two, three, four, five, six, seven or more terminals, for forming electrical connections with respective terminals and/or electrodes of the ostomy appliance. One or more terminals of the first interface may be configured for forming electrical connections with an accessory device, e.g. with respective terminals of a docking station. The first interface may comprise a ground terminal. The first interface may comprise a first terminal, a second terminal and optionally a third terminal. The first interface may comprise a fourth terminal and/or a fifth terminal. The first interface optionally comprises a sixth terminal. In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the first interface has M terminals, wherein M is an integer in the range from 4 to 8.The first interface of the monitor device may comprise a coupling part (may alternatively be denoted a device coupling part or a monitor device coupling part) for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling between the monitor device and the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The coupling part and the terminals of the first interface form (at least part of) a first connector of the monitor device.The monitor device comprises a power unit for powering the monitor device. The power unit may comprise a battery. The power unit may comprise charging circuitry connected to the battery and terminals of the first interface for charging the battery via the first interface, e.g. the first connector. The first interface may comprise separate charging terminal(s) for charging the battery.The monitor device may comprise a sensor unit with one or more sensor. The sensor unit is connected to the processor for feeding sensor data to the processor. The sensor unit may comprise an accelerometer for sensing acceleration and provision of acceleration data to the processor. The sensor unit may comprise a temperature sensor for provision of temperature data to the processor.The monitor device comprises a second interface connected to the processor. The second interface may be configured as an accessory interface for connecting, e.g. wirelessly connecting, the monitor device to one or more accessory devices. The second interface may comprise an antenna and a wireless transceiver, e.g. configured for wireless communication at frequencies in the range from 2.4 to 2.5 GHz. The wireless transceiver may be a Bluetooth transceiver, i.e. the wireless transceiver may be configured for wireless communication according to Bluetooth protocol, e.g. Bluetooth Low Energy, Bluetooth 4.0, Bluetooth 5. The second interface optionally comprises a loudspeaker and/or a haptic feedback element for provision of an audio signal and/or haptic feedback to the user, respectively.In one or more exemplary ostomy systems, the monitor device forms an integrated part of the ostomy appliance, e.g. the monitor device may form an integrated part of a base plate and/or the sensor assembly part of the ostomy appliance.The ostomy system may comprise a docking station forming an accessory device of the ostomy system. The docking station may be configured to electrically and/or mechanically couple the monitor device to the docking station.The docking station may comprise a docking monitor interface. The docking monitor interface may be configured for electrically and/or mechanically connecting the monitor device to the docking station. The docking monitor interface may be configured for wirelessly connecting the monitor device to the docking station. The docking monitor interface of the docking station may be configured to electrically and/or mechanically couple the docking station and the monitor device.The docking monitor interface of the docking station may comprise, e.g. as part of a first connector of the docking monitor interface, a coupling part for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling between the monitor device and the docking station. The coupling part may be configured to engage with a coupling part of the monitor device for releasably coupling the monitor device to the docking station.The docking monitor interface of the docking station may comprise, e.g. as part of a first connector of the docking monitor interface, a plurality of terminals, such as two, three, four, five, six, seven or more terminals, for forming electrical connections with respective terminals of the monitor device. The docking monitor interface may comprise a ground terminal. The docking monitor interface may comprise a first terminal and/or a second terminal. The docking station may comprise a third terminal. The docking monitor interface may comprise a fourth terminal and/or a fifth terminal. The docking monitor interface optionally comprises a sixth terminal.Disclosed is a base plate for an ostomy appliance, such as a base plate as described above. Also, a sensor assembly part for an ostomy appliance is disclosed, such as a sensor assembly part for being applied to a base plate. The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise: a top layer, a first adhesive layer, an electrode assembly comprising a plurality of electrodes; and a monitor interface configured for connecting the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part to a monitor device, such as mechanically connecting and/or electrically connecting the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part to a monitor device. The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise additional layers and/or features as described above.The electrode assembly may have a first part and a second part. The first part may comprise connection parts of the plurality of electrodes. The second part may comprise sensing part of the plurality of electrodes. The electrode assembly, such as the second part of the electrode assembly, may be arranged between the first adhesive layer and the top layer.The monitor interface may comprise a plurality of terminals electrically connected to the plurality of electrodes and configured to connect with respective terminals of the monitor device. The connection parts may form the plurality of terminals of the monitor interface.The first adhesive layer may be provided such as to not cover a primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly. For example, the first adhesive layer may extend over a first area in a base plate plane and/or in a sensor assembly part plane, and the first part of the electrode assembly may be outside the first area.Also disclosed is a device for connecting to a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part of an ostomy appliance, such as the above disclosed base plate. The device may be a monitor device, e.g. such as a monitor device as disclosed above. The monitor device may be configured to measure electrical parameters using electrodes of the base plate and/or sensor assembly part. The device may comprise electronic circuitry. The electronic circuitry may include a processor. The electronic circuitry may be enclosed by the device housing.The device may comprise an appliance interface, e.g. configured for connecting the device to the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The appliance interface may comprise a plurality of terminals, e.g. for forming electrical connection with a plurality of electrodes of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The appliance interface may comprise a device coupling part. The device coupling part may provide for coupling between the device and the base plate.Also disclosed is a method for manufacturing a base plate or a sensor assembly part, such as a base plate or a sensor assembly part for an ostomy appliance, such as the base plate or the sensor assembly part as disclosed above.The method may comprise: providing a top layer; providing an electrode assembly comprising a plurality of electrodes; and providing a first adhesive layer.The electrode assembly may have a first part and a second part. The first part may comprise connection parts of the plurality of electrodes. The second part may comprise sensing part of the plurality of electrodes.The method may further comprise assembling the top layer, the electrode assembly and the first adhesive layer, e.g. such that the electrode assembly, such as the second part of the electrode assembly, is arranged between the first adhesive layer and the top layer.The first adhesive layer may be provided such that a primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly is not covered by the first adhesive. For example, the first adhesive layer may be provided to extend over a first area in a base plate plane and/or in a sensor assembly part plane, and the first part of the electrode assembly may be outside the first area.By providing the first adhesive layer such that it does not cover a primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly, the first part may be accessible for connecting the electrode assembly, such as the plurality of electrodes of the electrode assembly, to connecting parts, such as terminals of a monitor device. For example, the connection parts may be accessible for the terminals of the monitor device, by the first part of the electrode assembly not being covered by the first adhesive.The top layer, the electrode assembly and/or the first adhesive layer may be substantially planar. The top layer, the electrode assembly and/or the first adhesive layer may extend in a base plate plane and/or in a sensor assembly part plane.A release liner may be provided on the proximal side of the first adhesive layer. The first adhesive layer may be provided with a release liner on the proximal side of the first adhesive layer. The release liner may have a distal side facing the first adhesive layer. The first adhesive layer may be provided, such as formed, on the release liner, such as on a distal side of the release liner, e.g. by scraping a thin layer of a first composition, such as a first adhesive composition, onto the release liner to form the first adhesive layer. For example, the first adhesive layer may be provided on the release liner by scraping a first composition, such as a first adhesive composition, onto the release liner. The first adhesive layer may be formed on the release liner prior to assembling the top layer, the electrode assembly and the first adhesive layer.The release liner may be provided with one or more protrusions or elevated parts, such that upon scraping of the first composition on the distal side of the release liner, the first composition is not provided on the protruding or elevated parts. Thereby, holes, indents etc. may be provided in the first adhesive layer.The release liner may be provided with one or more elevated parts, such as a first elevated part. The first elevated part may provide an exempt area of the release liner whereon the first composition is not disposed. The exempt area and/or the first elevated part may be aligned with the first part of the electrode assembly, e.g. after the first composition is provided on the release liner. For example, the first elevated part may prevent the first composition to be disposed on the first elevated part. Thereby, the first adhesive layer may be formed with an exempt area, i.e. an area of the release liner not covered by the first composition. The first adhesive layer and/or the release liner may be positioned such that the exempt area and/or the first elevated part of the release liner is aligned with the with the first part of the electrode assembly, such that the first adhesive layer does not cover the first part of the electrode assembly.The electrode assembly may be provided between the top layer and the first adhesive layer. A distal side of the electrode assembly may be facing the top layer. A proximal side of the electrode assembly may be facing the first adhesive layer.The plurality of electrodes may be provided on a proximal side of the electrode assembly.The electrode assembly may comprise a support layer. The plurality of electrodes may be provided on the proximal side of the support layer. For example, the plurality of electrodes may be printed on the proximal side of the support layer. The plurality of electrodes may face the first adhesive layer. The plurality of electrodes may contact the first adhesive layer.The first part of the electrode assembly may have a primary side. The first part of the electrode assembly may have a secondary side. The primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly may be a proximal side of the first part of the electrode assembly. The secondary side of the first part of the electrode assembly may be a distal side of the first part of the electrode assembly. The primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly may initially be a proximal side of the first part of the electrode assembly. The secondary side of the first part of the electrode assembly may initially be a distal side of the first part of the electrode assembly. The first part of the electrode assembly may be turned over, e.g. to expose the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes on a distal side of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. For example, the first part may be bend, e.g. between 170-190 degrees, such as 180 degrees, e.g. for the primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly to face distally. Thus, the primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly may, at least partly, be facing distally. For example, the first part may include a first portion arranged on a distal side of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, such as distal with respect to the top layer, and a second portion that extends from the second part around an edge of the top layer to the first portion.The monitor interface may comprise a coupling part configured for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling, between the monitor device and the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. For example, the coupling part may be a rigid coupling part. The coupling part may allow for an electrical connection between the monitor device being coupled to the coupling part and the plurality of electrodes of the electrode assembly, such as through the plurality of terminals of the monitor interface and the monitor device.The coupling part may be attached to the top layer, such as a distal side of the top layer. Alternatively or additionally, the coupling part may be attached to the electrode assembly, such as to a distal side of the electrode assembly, such as to a distal side of the support layer of the electrode assembly. The coupling part may be attached to the top layer and/or the electrode assembly by gluing or welding.The coupling part may be aligned with the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes. For example, the coupling part may be positioned to cover the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes. Alternatively or additionally, the connection part of the plurality of electrodes may be positioned within a terminal interface region defined by the coupling part. The terminal interface region may be a region wherein terminals, e.g. of the base plate and/or sensor assembly part, may connect, such as mechanically and/or electrically connect, with respective terminals of a monitor device. The terminal interface region need not be a structurally delimited and/or visible region. The terminal interface region may be a region adjacent to the coupling part. Alternatively or additionally, The terminal interface region may be surrounded by the coupling part, such as a region surrounded by the coupling part. The terminal interface region may be within a 20 mm radius of the coupling part, such as within a 10 mm radius of the coupling part, such as within a 5 mm radius of the coupling part, such as within a 1 mm radius of the coupling part. The coupling part may surround the terminal interface region. The coupling part may have one or more outer sides including a first outer side. The terminal interface region may be adjacent an outer side of the coupling part, such as the first outer side.The electrode assembly may comprise a reinforcement element. The reinforcement element may be forming at least part of the first part of the electrode assembly. The reinforcement element may provide and/or strengthen the first part of the electrode assembly, e.g. to better account for direct contact between the terminals of the monitor device and the attachment parts of the plurality of electrodes. Furthermore, the reinforcement element may facilitate bending of the first part of the electrode assembly, such as to turn the primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly to face distally.The reinforcement element may comprise a plurality of conductive paths. The plurality of conductive paths may be connected to the plurality of electrodes, e.g. to form the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes. For example, the reinforcement element may be a flex circuit.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a second adhesive layer, such as the second adhesive layer as previously disclosed. The second adhesive layer may have a proximal side and/or a distal side. The proximal side of the second adhesive layer may be facing the distal side of the electrode assembly. The distal side of the second adhesive layer may be facing the coupling part. The second adhesive layer may be between the top layer and the electrode assembly. The method may comprise providing the second adhesive layer. The method may comprise positioning the second adhesive layer, e.g. with a proximal side facing the distal side of the electrode assembly. The second adhesive layer may be provided, such as formed, on the proximal side of the top layer, e.g. such that the distal side of the second adhesive layer is facing the proximal side of the top layer. The distal side of the second adhesive layer may be facing the proximal side of the top layer. The second adhesive layer may be provided on the top layer by scraping a thin layer of a second composition, such as a second adhesive composition, onto the top layer, such as on the proximal side of the top layer, to form the second adhesive layer.The second adhesive layer may extend over a larger area in the base plate plane and/or the sensor assembly part plane than the first adhesive layer. For example, the second adhesive layer may extend over a second area in the base plate plane and/or the sensor assembly part plane, e.g. being larger than the first area and/or covering the first area, where the first adhesive layer extends over the first area.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may be cut from assembled layers, e.g. comprising the top layer, the electrode assembly, the first adhesive layer and/or the second adhesive layer. The method may comprise cutting out, such as stamping out, the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part from the assembled top layer, electrode assembly, first adhesive layer and/or second adhesive layer. The cutting out may provide a contour of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The cutting out may be provided before turning over the first part of the electrode assembly. The first part of the electrode assembly may have two substantially parallel sides, e.g. in the base plate plane. The base plate may be cut from the assembled layers to provide the first part of the electrode assembly with substantially parallel sides.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a stomal opening with a center point. For example, the top layer, the second adhesive, the electrode assembly, the first adhesive and/or the release liner may comprise a stomal opening with a center point, e.g. collectively forming the stomal opening with the center point of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.A horizontal axis in the base plate plane and/or the sensor assembly plane may cross the center point, e.g. of the stomal opening. The horizontal axis may be orientated substantially horizontal, e.g. parallel with the ground, when the base plate is worn as intended. An upper half of the base plate may be defined as the part of the base plate in the base plate plane above the horizontal axis when the base plate is worn as intended. A lower half of the base plate may be defined as the part of the base plate in the base plate plane below the horizontal axis when the base plate is worn as intended.The coupling part and/or the first part of the electrode assembly may be positioned on the upper half of the base plate and/or sensor assembly part. The coupling part and/or the first part of the electrode assembly may be positioned on the upper half of the base plate and/or sensor assembly part within an angular space from the horizontal axis, e.g. with respect to the center point of the base plate, from 45-135 degrees, such as from 45-90 degrees, or from 90-135 degrees. Such positioning of the coupling part and/or the first part of the electrode assembly may provide that a device, such as the monitor device, may be coupled to the coupling part and/or the first part of the electrode assembly with little or no interference with the ostomy bag. Furthermore, it may ease attachment of the device to the base plate.FIG.1illustrates an exemplary ostomy system. Theostomy system1comprises anostomy appliance2including abase plate4. Thebase plate4is adapted to support an ostomy pouch (not shown). Further, theostomy system1comprises amonitor device6and an accessory device8(mobile telephone). Themonitor device6is connectable to thebase plate4via respective first connectors of themonitor device6andbase plate4. Themonitor device6is configured for wireless communication with the accessory device8. Optionally, the accessory device8is configured to communicate with aserver device10of theostomy system1, e.g. vianetwork12. Theserver device10may be operated and/or controlled by the ostomy appliance manufacturer and/or a service centre. Ostomy data or parameter data based on the ostomy data are obtained from electrodes/sensors of theostomy appliance2with themonitor device6. Themonitor device6processes the ostomy data and/or parameter data based on the ostomy data to determine monitor data that are transmitted to the accessory device8. In the illustrated ostomy system, the accessory device8is a mobile phone, however the accessory device8may be embodied as another handheld device, such as a tablet device, or a wearable, such as a watch or other wrist-worn electronic device. Accordingly, themonitor device6is configured to determine and transmit monitor data to the accessory device8. Thebase plate4comprises a coupling member14in the form of a coupling ring16for coupling an ostomy pouch (not shown) to the base plate (two-part ostomy appliance). The base plate has a stoma-receivingopening18with a stoma center point. The size and/or shape of thestomal opening18is typically adjusted by the user or nurse before application of the ostomy appliance to accommodate the user's stoma.Theostomy system1optionally comprises adocking station20forming an accessory device of theostomy system1. Thedocking station20comprises a docking monitor interface including afirst connector22configured for electrically and/or mechanically connecting themonitor device6to thedocking station20. The docking monitor interface may be configured for wirelessly connecting the monitor device to the docking station. Thedocking station20comprises auser interface24for receiving user input and/or providing feedback to the user on the operational state of thedocking station20. Theuser interface24may comprise a touch-screen. Theuser interface24may comprise one or more physical buttons and/or one or more visual indicators, such as light emitting diodes,FIG.2is a schematic block diagram of an exemplary monitor device. Themonitor device6comprises amonitor device housing100, aprocessor101and one or more interfaces, the one or more interfaces including a first interface102(appliance interface) and a second interface104(accessory interface). Themonitor device6comprises amemory106for storing ostomy data and/or parameter data based on the ostomy data. Thememory106is connected to theprocessor101and/or thefirst interface102.Thefirst interface102is configured as an appliance interface for electrically and/or mechanically connecting themonitor device6to the ostomy appliance,e.g. ostomy appliance2. Thefirst interface102comprises a plurality of terminals for forming electrical connections with respective terminals of the ostomy appliance2(base plate4). Thefirst interface102comprises aground terminal108, afirst terminal110, asecond terminal112and athird terminal114. Thefirst interface102optionally comprises afourth terminal116and afifth terminal118. Thefirst interface102of themonitor device6comprises acoupling part120for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling between the monitor device and the base plate. Thecoupling part120and theterminals108,110,112,114,116, and118of thefirst interface102form (at least part of) a first connector of themonitor device6.Themonitor device6comprises apower unit121for powering the monitor device and active components thereof, i.e. thepower unit121is connected to theprocessor101, thefirst interface102, thesecond interface104, andmemory106. The power unit comprises a battery and charging circuitry. The charging circuitry is connected to the battery and terminals of thefirst interface102for charging the battery via terminals of the first interface, e.g. terminals of the first connector.Thesecond interface104of monitor device is configured as an accessory interface for connecting themonitor device6to one or more accessory devices such as accessory device8. Thesecond interface104comprises anantenna122and awireless transceiver124configured for wireless communication with accessory device(s). Optionally, thesecond interface104comprises aloudspeaker126and/or ahaptic feedback element128for provision of respective audio signal and/or haptic feedback to the user.Themonitor device6comprises asensor unit140connected to theprocessor101. Thesensor unit140comprises a temperature sensor for feeding temperature data to the processor and a G-sensor or accelerometer for feeding acceleration data to theprocessor101.Theprocessor101is configured to apply a processing scheme, and thefirst interface102is configured for collecting ostomy data from the base plate coupled to the first interface, the ostomy data comprising first ostomy data from a first electrode pair of the base plate, second ostomy data from a second electrode pair of the base plate, and third ostomy data from a third electrode pair of the base plate. The ostomy data may be stored in thememory106and/or processed in theprocessor101in order to obtain parameter data.The parameter data may be stored in thememory106. Theprocessor101is configured to apply a processing scheme, wherein to apply a processing scheme comprises obtain first parameter data based on the first ostomy data; obtain second parameter data based on the second ostomy data; obtain third parameter data based on the third ostomy data. In other words, theprocessor101is configured to obtain first, second and third parameter data based on respective first, second and third ostomy data. To apply a processing scheme comprises to determine an operating state of the base plate of the ostomy appliance based on one or more, e.g. all, of the first parameter data, the second parameter data and the third parameter data, wherein the operating state is indicative of a degree of radial erosion of the base plate and/or acute leakage risk for the ostomy appliance. Themonitor device6is configured to, in accordance with a determination that the operating state is a first operating state, transmit a first monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the first operating state of the base plate via the second interface; and in accordance with a determination that the operating state is a second operating state, transmit a second monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the second operating state of the base plate via the second interface.FIG.3illustrates an exploded view of an exemplary base plate of an ostomy appliance. Thebase plate4comprises a firstadhesive layer200. During use, a proximal surface of the firstadhesive layer200adheres to the user's skin in the peristomal area and/or to additional seals, such as sealing paste, sealing tape and/or sealing ring. Thebase plate4optionally comprises a secondadhesive layer202, also denoted rim adhesive layer. Thebase plate4comprises a plurality of electrodes arranged in anelectrode assembly204. Theelectrode assembly204is arranged between the firstadhesive layer200and the secondadhesive layer202. Theelectrode assembly204comprises a support layer with electrodes formed on a proximal surface of the support layer. Thebase plate4comprises arelease liner206that is peeled off by the user prior to applying thebase plate4on the skin. Thebase plate4comprises atop layer208and acoupling ring209for coupling an ostomy pouch to thebase plate4. Thetop layer208is a protective layer protecting the secondadhesive layer202from external strains and stress during use.Thebase plate4comprises a monitor interface. The monitor interface is configured for electrically and/or mechanically connecting the ostomy appliance (base plate4) to the monitor device. The monitor interface of the base plate comprises acoupling part210for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling between the monitor device and the base plate. Thecoupling part210is configured to engage with a coupling part of the monitor device for releasably coupling the monitor device to thebase plate4. Further, the monitor interface of thebase plate4comprises a plurality of terminal elements respectively forming a plurality of terminals212for forming electrical connections with respective terminals of the monitor device. Thecoupling part210and the terminals212form a first connector211of thebase plate4. Thebase plate4comprises a first intermediate element213on the proximal side of the electrode assembly. The first intermediate element213is arranged between the terminal elements forming terminals212and the first adhesive layer (not shown). The first intermediate element213covers the terminal elements forming terminals212of thebase plate4when seen in the axial direction and protects the first adhesive layer from mechanical stress from the terminal elements of the base plate.As previously described, some parts of the illustratedbase plate4, may be provided as a separate assembly to be applied to an existing base plate, e.g. comprising one or more of the components as described, such as to provide a base plate like thebase plate4as described. For example, asensor assembly part700may be provided, e.g. comprising theelectrode assembly204, the first connector211, the first intermediate element213, the firstadhesive layer200and therelease liner206. Additionally, thesensor assembly part700may also comprise the secondadhesive layer202and/or thetop layer208. It may be envisioned that the user may provide a hole in layers of the base plate whereto thesensor assembly part700is to be applied, to allow for the first connector211of thesensor assembly part700to protrude through layers of the base plate whereto thesensor assembly part700is applied. Alternatively, thesensor assembly part700may be applied to the base plate such that the first connector211is positioned outside the periphery of the base plate.FIG.4illustrates an exploded view of anexemplary electrode assembly204of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part. Theelectrode assembly204has adistal side204A and aproximal side204B. The electrode assembly comprises asupport layer214withproximal surface214B andelectrodes216including a ground electrode, a first electrode, a second electrode, a third electrode, a fourth electrode, and a fifth electrode, wherein each electrode has arespective connection part217for connecting theelectrodes216to respective terminal elements of the monitor interface. Theelectrodes216are provided, such as formed, on aproximal side214B of thesupport layer214, e.g. theelectrodes216may be positioned on theproximal side214B of the support layer. Further,electrode assembly204comprises amasking element218withproximal surface218B and configured to insulate electrode parts ofelectrodes216from the first adhesive layer of the base plate and/or a sensor assembly part. The maskingelement218covers or overlap with parts of theelectrodes216when seen in the axial direction.FIG.5is a proximal view of proximal surfaces of base plate parts of thebase plate4and/or asensor assembly part700without the first adhesive layer and the release liner. Thebase plate4and/or asensor assembly part700comprises a first intermediate element213on the proximal side of the electrode assembly, i.e. between theelectrode assembly204and the first adhesive layer (not shown). The first intermediate element213covers the terminal elements of thebase plate4when seen in the axial direction and protects the first adhesive layer from mechanical stress from the terminal elements of the base plate and/or a sensor assembly part.FIG.6is a distal view of an exemplary electrode configuration220ofelectrodes216of theelectrode assembly204. Theelectrode assembly204, such as the electrode configuration220of theelectrode assembly204comprises aground electrode222, afirst electrode224, asecond electrode226, athird electrode228, afourth electrode230, and afifth electrode232. Theground electrode222comprises aground connection part222A and thefirst electrode224comprises afirst connection part224A. Thesecond electrode226comprises asecond connection part226A and thethird electrode228comprises athird connection part228A. Thefourth electrode230comprises afourth connection part230A and thefifth electrode232comprise afifth connection part232A.Thefourth electrode230comprisesfourth sensing parts230B. Thefifth electrode232comprisesfifth sensing parts232B.Theground electrode222comprises afirst electrode part234for forming a ground for thefirst electrode224. Theground electrode222comprises asecond electrode part236for forming a ground for thesecond electrode226. Theground electrode222comprises athird electrode part238for forming a ground for thethird electrode228. Theground electrode222comprises afourth electrode part240for forming a ground for thefourth electrode230and thefifth electrode232. Thefourth electrode part240of theground electrode222comprisesground sensing parts222BFIG.7is a distal view of an exemplary masking element. The maskingelement218optionally has a plurality of terminal openings including six terminal openings. The plurality of terminal openings comprises aground terminal opening242, a firstterminal opening244, a second terminal opening246, a thirdterminal opening248, a fourthterminal opening250, and a fifthterminal opening252. Theterminal openings242,244,246,248,250,252of themasking element218are configured to overlap and/or be aligned withrespective connection parts222A,224A,226A,228A,230A,232A of the electrodes of the electrode assembly.The maskingelement218has a plurality of sensor point openings. The sensor point openings comprise primary sensor point openings shown within dottedline254, each primary sensor point opening configured to overlap a part of theground electrode222and/or a part of thefourth electrode230. The primarysensor point openings254comprise, in the illustrated exemplary masking element, five primary firstsensor point openings254A each configured to overlap a part of theground electrode222. The primarysensor point openings254comprise, in the illustrated exemplary masking element, four primary secondsensor point openings254B each configured to overlap a part of thefourth electrode230. The sensor point openings comprise secondary sensor point openings shown within dottedline256, each second sensor point opening configured to overlap a part of thefourth electrode230and/or a part of thefifth electrode232. The secondarysensor point openings256comprise, in the illustrated exemplary masking element, five secondary firstsensor point openings256A each configured to overlap a part of thefifth electrode232. The secondarysensor point openings256comprise, in the illustrated exemplary masking element, four secondary secondsensor point openings256B each configured to overlap a part of thefourth electrode230. The sensor point openings comprise tertiary sensor point openings shown within dottedline258, each tertiary sensor opening configured to overlap a part of thefifth electrode232and/or a part of theground electrode222. The tertiarysensor point openings258comprise, in the illustrated exemplary masking element, five tertiary firstsensor point openings258A each configured to overlap a part of thefifth electrode232. The tertiarysensor point openings258comprise, in the illustrated exemplary masking element, four tertiary secondsensor point openings258B each configured to overlap a part of theground electrode222.FIG.8is a distal view of an exemplary first adhesive layer. The firstadhesive layer200has a plurality of sensor point openings. The sensor point openings of the first adhesive layer comprise primary sensor point openings shown within dottedline260, each primary sensor point opening configured to overlap a part of theground electrode222and/or a part of thefourth electrode230of the electrode assembly. The primarysensor point openings260comprise, in the illustrated exemplary first adhesive layer, five primary firstsensor point openings260A each configured to overlap a part of theground electrode222. The primarysensor point openings260comprise, in the illustrated exemplary first adhesive layer, four primary secondsensor point openings260B each configured to overlap a part of thefourth electrode230. The sensor point openings of the first adhesive layer comprise secondary sensor point openings shown within dottedline262, each second sensor point opening configured to overlap a part of thefourth electrode230and/or a part of thefifth electrode232of the electrode assembly. The secondarysensor point openings262comprise, in the illustrated exemplary first adhesive layer, five secondary firstsensor point openings262A each configured to overlap a part of thefifth electrode232. The secondarysensor point openings262comprise, in the illustrated exemplary first adhesive layer, four secondary secondsensor point openings262B each configured to overlap a part of thefourth electrode230. The sensor point openings of the first adhesive layer comprise tertiary sensor point openings shown within dottedline264, each tertiary sensor opening configured to overlap a part of thefifth electrode232and/or a part of theground electrode222of the electrode assembly. The tertiarysensor point openings264comprise, in the illustrated exemplary first adhesive layer, five tertiary firstsensor point openings264A each configured to overlap a part of thefifth electrode232. The tertiarysensor point openings264comprise, in the illustrated exemplary first adhesive layer, four tertiary secondsensor point openings264B each configured to overlap a part of theground electrode222.FIG.9is a proximal view of the first adhesive layer ofFIG.8.FIG.10is a more detailed distal view of a part of thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700. Thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700comprises a monitor interface207. The monitor interface207comprises the first connector211. The first connector211comprises couplingpart210configured to releasably couple the monitor device to thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700and thus forming a releasable coupling. The first connector211of the monitor interface207comprises a plurality of terminals formed by respective terminal elements for forming respective electrical connections with respective terminals of the monitor device.The plurality of terminals of the first connector211of the monitor interface207comprises a ground terminal element282forming a ground terminal282A, a first terminal element284forming a first terminal284, a second terminal element286forming a second terminal286A, and a third terminal element288forming a third terminal288A. The monitor interface207optionally comprises a fourth terminal element290forming a fourth terminal290A and/or a fifth terminal element292forming a fifth terminal290. The terminal elements282,284,286,288,290,292contactrespective connection parts222A,224A,226A,228A,230a,232A ofelectrodes222,224,226,228,230,232.FIG.11illustrates an exploded view of anexemplary base plate4of an ostomy appliance. Thebase plate4comprises a firstadhesive layer200. Thebase plate4optionally comprises a secondadhesive layer202, also denoted rim adhesive layer. Thebase plate4comprises a plurality ofelectrodes216arranged in anelectrode assembly204. Theelectrode assembly204is arranged between the firstadhesive layer200and the secondadhesive layer202. Theelectrode assembly204optionally comprises asupport layer214. The electrodes may be formed on a proximal side of thesupport layer214, such as by printing of conductive ink on the proximal side of thesupport layer214. Theelectrode assembly204optionally comprises amasking element218, e.g. covering or overlapping with parts of theelectrodes216when seen in the axial direction, e.g. from a proximal side of the electrodes. The electrode assembly has afirst part302comprisingconnection parts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216. The electrode assembly has asecond part303. Thesecond part303comprises sensing parts of the plurality ofelectrodes216. Thebase plate4comprises arelease liner206. Thebase plate4comprises atop layer208. Thebase plate4optionally comprises acoupling ring209for coupling an ostomy pouch to thebase plate4. Alternatively, e.g. for a one-part ostomy appliance, an ostomy pouch may be directly fastened to thebase plate4.Thebase plate4comprises a monitor interface configured for connecting, such as mechanically and/or electronically connecting, the base plate to a monitor device. The monitor interface comprises a plurality of terminals212configured to form electrical connections with respective terminals of the monitor device. For example, as illustrated, theconnection parts217may form the plurality of terminals212of the monitor interface. Alternatively, e.g. as shown inFIG.3, terminal elements may be provided to form the plurality of terminals.As illustrated by the dashed line, the layers are aligned such that the firstadhesive layer200is not covering a primary side, such as a distal side, of thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204.Therelease liner206comprises a firstelevated part314and a plurality of protrusions316. The firstadhesive layer200may be provided by scraping a layer of a first composition, such as a first adhesive composition, onto therelease liner206. The increased height of the protrusions316and elevated part(s)314minimizes the distance between the scraping apparatus and therelease liner206such that the first composition is not deposited in these areas. Thereby, the protrusions316accounts for the sensor point openings (e.g.sensor point openings260,262,264ofFIG.8) of the firstadhesive layer200, and the firstelevated part314accounts for thefirst part302, such as the primary side of thefirst part302, of the electrode assembly not being covered by the firstadhesive layer200.Furthermore, the firstadhesive layer200may typically show viscous properties, and therelease liner206having the protrusions316and the firstelevated part314provides that shape of the firstadhesive layer200, including the sensor point openings, is maintained while therelease liner206is maintained.Theoptional masking element218may be provided to insulate the plurality ofelectrodes216, or parts of the plurality ofelectrodes216. The maskingelement218has a plurality of terminal openings318to allow connection to the connectingparts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216, e.g. from a proximal side of theelectrode assembly204.As described in respect toFIG.3, some parts of the illustratedbase plate4, may be provided as a separate assembly to be applied to an existing base plate, e.g. comprising one or more of the components as described, such as to provide a base plate like thebase plate4as described. For example, asensor assembly part700may be provided, e.g. comprising theelectrode assembly204, the firstadhesive layer200and therelease liner206. Additionally, thesensor assembly part700may also comprise the secondadhesive layer202and/or thetop layer208. It may be envisioned that the user may provide a hole in layers of the base plate whereto thesensor assembly part700is to be applied, to allow for connection between the plurality ofelectrodes216of theelectrode assembly204and terminals of a monitor device being coupled to thebase plate4.FIG.12illustrates an exploded view of anexemplary electrode assembly204of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part, such as thebase plate4orsensor assembly part700ofFIG.11. Theelectrode assembly204has adistal side204A and aproximal side204B. The electrode assembly comprises asupport layer214with aproximal side214B and adistal side214A. Theelectrode assembly204comprises a plurality ofelectrodes216. Each electrode of the plurality ofelectrodes216has arespective connection part217for connecting theelectrodes216to respective terminal elements of the monitor interface. Theelectrodes216are provided, such as formed, on theproximal side214B of thesupport layer214, e.g. theelectrodes216may be positioned on theproximal side214B of thesupport layer214. Further,electrode assembly204optionally comprises amasking element218withproximal side218B and configured to insulate electrode parts ofelectrodes216from the firstadhesive layer200of thebase plate4and/or the sensor assembly part700(seeFIG.11). The maskingelement218covers or overlap with parts of theelectrodes216when seen in the axial direction, e.g. from theproximal side204B. The maskingelement218may be configured not to cover or overlap the connectingparts217of the plurality of electrodes.In someexemplary electrode assembly204, such as theelectrode assembly204ofFIG.12, theelectrode assembly204comprises areinforcement element308. Thereinforcement element308may be positioned proximal to theelectrode assembly216, such as proximal to the plurality ofelectrodes216, such as proximal to the plurality ofconnection parts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216. Thereinforcement element308may form at least part of a first part of theelectrode assembly204. Thereinforcement element308may be provided withopenings310to provide conductive pathways between sides of thereinforcement element308, such as between aproximal side308B and adistal side308A of thereinforcement element308.FIG.13shows an alternative toFIG.12, wherein thereinforcement element308comprises a plurality ofconductive paths311. For example, thereinforcement element308may be a flex circuit. The plurality ofconductive paths311may be connected to the plurality ofelectrodes216. The plurality ofconducive paths311thereby may form theconnection parts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216. The plurality ofconductive paths311may provide conductive pathways between theproximal side308B and thedistal side308A of thereinforcement element308.FIG.14shows an exemplary electrode configuration220of the plurality ofelectrodes216, like the electrode configuration220as shown inFIG.6, with the difference that theconnection parts217, such as theground connection part222A, thefirst connection part224A, thesecond connection part226A, thethird connection part228A, thefourth connection part230A and/or thefifth connection part232A, are straight connector parts.FIG.15, shows a sectional schematic representation of part of abase plate4and/or asensor assembly part700. Thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700comprises a firstadhesive layer200, an optional secondadhesive layer202, and atop layer208. Anelectrode assembly204comprising a plurality ofelectrodes216is arranged between the firstadhesive layer200and thetop layer208, such as between the firstadhesive layer200and the secondadhesive layer202. For example, a second part of theelectrode assembly204is arranged between the firstadhesive layer200and the secondadhesive layer202and/or thetop layer208. Theelectrode assembly204further comprises anoptional reinforcement element308and anoptional release liner206.The firstadhesive layer200is provided such that it does not cover a primary side of afirst part302of theelectrode assembly204. For example, therelease liner206comprises a firstelevated part314such as to facilitate the formation of the firstadhesive layer202to not cover the primary side of thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204. The primary side of thefirst part302may be a proximal side of thefirst part302. Thefirst part302includes the connection parts of the plurality ofelectrodes216and thereinforcement element308or part of thereinforcement element308. Thefirst part302may include part of thesupport layer214.FIG.16, shows a sectional schematic representation of part of abase plate4and/or asensor assembly part700as shown inFIG.15, further illustrating that theconnection parts217may be accessible, e.g. by slightly bending thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204in a distal direction. Alternatively, therelease liner206may be removed so thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204is accessible from a proximal side.Because the firstadhesive layer200is not covering thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204, thefirst part302is not adhered to the release liner or any other proximally positioned layers. Therefore, theconnection parts217may be accessible, e.g. for connection with a monitor device. Connection to theconnection parts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216may be provided through thereinforcement element308, or theconnection parts217may be formed by conductive paths of thereinforcement element308.FIG.17, shows a sectional schematic representation of part of abase plate4and/or asensor assembly part700. Thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700comprises a firstadhesive layer200, an optional secondadhesive layer202, and atop layer208. Anelectrode assembly204comprising a plurality ofelectrodes216is arranged between the firstadhesive layer200and thetop layer208, such as between the firstadhesive layer200and the secondadhesive layer202. For example, a second part of theelectrode assembly204is arranged between the first adhesive layer and the secondadhesive layer202/thetop layer208. Although not illustrated, theelectrode assembly204may comprise areinforcement element308, e.g. as illustrated inFIGS.15and16. Thus, thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700ofFIG.17may correspond to thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700, respectively, ofFIGS.15and16.Thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204, together with thetop layer208and the optional second adhesive layer, has been turned over to expose theconnection parts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216on a distal side of thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700. Thus, the primary side of thefirst part302initially being a proximal side (as shown inFIG.15) is, after thefirst part302has been turned, facing distally.FIG.18, shows a sectional schematic representation of part of abase plate4and/or asensor assembly part700as shown inFIG.17, wherein thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700comprises acoupling part210. Thecoupling part210is configured for forming a mechanical connection between the monitor device and thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700. Thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204is extending into thecoupling part210, e.g. to allow the monitor device, such as terminals of the monitor device to connect to theelectrodes216of thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700. Thecoupling part210is positioned to cover theconnection parts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216. Thecoupling part210may be attached to thetop layer208and/or thecoupling part210may be attached to theelectrode assembly204.FIG.19shows a flowchart of anexemplary method1000, such as a method for manufacturing a base plate or a sensor assembly part for an ostomy appliance. The method comprises providing1002a top layer, optionally providing1004a second adhesive layer, and providing1006an electrode assembly comprising a plurality of electrodes, the electrode assembly having a first part and a second part, the first part comprising connection parts of the plurality of electrodes. The method further comprises: providing1008a first adhesive layer, assembling1010the top layer, the optional second adhesive layer, the electrode assembly and the first adhesive layer. The first adhesive layer being provided1008such that a primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly is not covered by thefirst adhesive1008.Assembling1010the top layer, the optional second adhesive layer, the electrode assembly and the first adhesive layer includes assembling such that the electrode assembly is arranged between the first adhesive layer and the top layer and/or between the first adhesive layer and the optional second adhesive layer. For example, assembling1010the top layer, the optional second adhesive layer, the electrode assembly and the first adhesive layer includes assembling such that the second part of the electrode assembly, e.g. comprising sensing parts of the plurality of electrodes, is arranged between the first adhesive layer and the second adhesive layer/the top layer.Themethod1000furthermore optionally comprises providing1016a coupling part on the base plate or sensor assembly part. The coupling part may be provided1016to be aligned with the top layer opening and the optional second adhesive layer opening. The coupling part may be provided1016to be aligned with the first part of the electrode assembly.Themethod1000furthermore optionally comprises providing1018a release liner. The first adhesive layer may be provided1008on the release liner. For example, the first adhesive layer may be provided1008, such as formed, on the release liner by scraping of a first composition, such as a first adhesive composition. The release liner may comprise a first elevated part for forming an area not covered by the first adhesive layer. The first elevated part and consequently the area not covered by the first adhesive layer may be aligned with the first part of the electrode assembly, such that the first adhesive layer does not cover the first part of the electrode assembly.The position of the first connector on the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, the number of terminals and the position of the terminals in the coupling part may be adapted to the electrode configuration used in the electrode assembly of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.The use of the terms “first”, “second”, “third” and “fourth”, “primary”, “secondary”, “tertiary” etc. does not imply any particular order, but are included to identify individual elements. Moreover, the use of the terms “first”, “second”, “third” and “fourth”, “primary”, “secondary”, “tertiary” etc. does not denote any order or importance, but rather the terms “first”, “second”, “third” and “fourth”, “primary”, “secondary”, “tertiary” etc. are used to distinguish one element from another. Note that the words “first”, “second”, “third” and “fourth”, “primary”, “secondary”, “tertiary” etc. are used here and elsewhere for labelling purposes only and are not intended to denote any specific spatial or temporal ordering. Furthermore, the labelling of a first element does not imply the presence of a second element and vice versa.Although particular features have been shown and described, it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the claimed invention, and it will be made obvious to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed invention. The specification and drawings are, accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense. The claimed invention is intended to cover all alternatives, modifications and equivalents.Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure are set out in the following items:1. Method for manufacturing a base plate or a sensor assembly part for an ostomy appliance, the method comprising:providing a top layer;providing an electrode assembly comprising a plurality of electrodes, the electrode assembly having a first part and a second part, the first part comprising connection parts of the plurality of electrodes;providing a first adhesive layer; andassembling the top layer, the electrode assembly and the first adhesive layer, such that the second part of the electrode assembly is arranged between the first adhesive layer and the top layer,wherein the first adhesive layer is provided such that a primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly is not covered by the first adhesive.2. Method according toitem1 comprising providing a release liner, and wherein the first adhesive layer is provided on the release liner.3. Method according toitem2, wherein the release liner comprises a first elevated part and the first adhesive layer is provided on the release liner by scraping a first composition onto the release liner, the first elevated part providing an exempt area of the release liner whereon the first adhesive composition is not disposed, the exempt area being aligned with the first part of the electrode assembly.4. A base plate for an ostomy appliance, the base plate comprising:a top layer;a first adhesive layer; andan electrode assembly comprising a plurality of electrodes, the electrode assembly having a first part and a second part, the first part comprising connection parts of the plurality of electrodes, the second part being arranged between the first adhesive layer and the top layer;a monitor interface configured for connecting the base plate to a monitor device, the monitor interface comprising a plurality of terminals configured to form electrical connections with respective terminals of the monitor device,wherein the first adhesive layer is not covering a primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly.5. The base plate ofitem4, wherein the connection parts forms the plurality of terminals of the monitor interface.6. The base plate of any of items 4-5, wherein the plurality of electrodes is provided on a proximal side of the electrode assembly.7. The base plate ofitem6, wherein the first part of the electrode assembly is turned over to expose the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes on a distal side of the base plate.8. The base plate of any of items 4-7, wherein the monitor interface comprises a coupling part configured for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling, between the monitor device and the base plate.9. The base plate of item 8, wherein the coupling part is attached to the top layer, such as a distal side of the top layer.10. The base plate of item 9 as dependent on item 7, wherein the coupling part is positioned to cover the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes.11. The base plate of items 4-10, wherein the electrode assembly comprises a reinforcement element, and wherein the reinforcement element is forming at least part of the first part of the electrode assembly.12. The base plate of item 11, wherein the reinforcement element comprises a plurality of conductive paths connected to the plurality of electrodes to form the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes.13. The base plate of any ofitems11 or 12, wherein the reinforcement element is a flex circuit.14. The base plate of any of items 4-13 comprising a second adhesive layer between the top layer and the electrode assembly.15. A base plate for an ostomy appliance obtainable by the method according to any of items 1-3.16. A sensor assembly part for an ostomy appliance, the sensor assembly part comprising:a top layer;a first adhesive layer; andan electrode assembly comprising a plurality of electrodes, the electrode assembly having a first part and a second part, the first part comprising connection parts of the plurality of electrodes, the second part being arranged between the first adhesive layer and the top layer;a monitor interface configured for connecting the sensor assembly part to a monitor device, the monitor interface comprising a plurality of terminals configured to form electrical connections with respective terminals of the monitor device,wherein the first adhesive layer is not covering a primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly.17. The sensor assembly part of item 16, wherein the connection parts forms the plurality of terminals of the monitor interface.18. The sensor assembly part of any of items 16-17, wherein the plurality of electrodes is provided on a proximal side of the electrode assembly.19. The sensor assembly part ofitem18, wherein the first part of the electrode assembly is turned over to expose the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes on a distal side of the sensor assembly part.20. The sensor assembly part of any of items 16-19, wherein the monitor interface comprises a coupling part configured for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling, between the monitor device and the sensor assembly part.21. The sensor assembly part ofitem20, wherein the coupling part is attached to the top layer, such as a distal side of the top layer.22. The sensor assembly part of item 21 as dependent on item 7, wherein the coupling part is positioned to cover the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes.23. The sensor assembly part of items 16-22, wherein the electrode assembly comprises a reinforcement element, and wherein the reinforcement element is forming at least part of the first part of the electrode assembly.24. The sensor assembly part of item 23, wherein the reinforcement element comprises a plurality of conductive paths connected to the plurality of electrodes to form the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes.25. The sensor assembly part of any ofitems23 or 24, wherein the reinforcement element is a flex circuit.26. The sensor assembly part of any of items 16-25 comprising a second adhesive layer between the top layer and the electrode assembly.27. A sensor assembly part for an ostomy appliance obtainable by the method according to any of items 1-3.LIST OF REFERENCES1ostomy system2ostomy appliance4base plate6monitor device8accessory device10server device12network14coupling member16coupling ring18stoma-receiving opening100monitor device housing101processor102first interface104second interface106memory108ground terminal of monitor device110first terminal of monitor device112second terminal of monitor device114third terminal of monitor device116fourth terminal of monitor device118fifth terminal of monitor device120coupling part122antenna124wireless transceiver126loudspeaker128haptic feedback element200first adhesive layer200A distal side/surface of first adhesive layer200B proximal side/surface of first adhesive layer202second adhesive layer202A distal side/surface of second adhesive layer202B proximal side/surface of second adhesive layer204electrode assembly204A distal side/surface of electrode assembly204B proximal side/surface of electrode assembly206release liner206A distal side/surface of the release liner206B proximal side/surface of the release liner208top layer208A distal side/surface of the top layer208B proximal side/surface of the top layer209coupling ring210coupling part of first connector211first connector212terminals of first connector213first intermediate element213A distal side/surface of first intermediate element213B proximal side/surface of first intermediate element214support layer of electrode assembly214A distal side/surface of support layer214B proximal side/surface of support layer216electrodes of electrode assembly217connection parts218masking element218A distal side/surface of masking element218B proximal side/surface of masking element220electrode configuration222ground electrode222A ground connection part222B ground sensing part224first electrode224A first connection part226second electrode226A second connection part228third electrode228A third connection part230fourth electrode230A fourth connection part230B fourth sensing part232fifth electrode232A fifth connection part232B fifth sensing part234first electrode part of the ground electrode236second electrode part of the ground electrode238third electrode part of the ground electrode240fourth electrode part of the ground electrode242ground terminal opening244first terminal opening246second terminal opening248third terminal opening250fourth terminal opening252fifth terminal opening254primary sensor point openings of masking element254A primary first sensor point opening254B primary second sensor point opening256secondary sensor point openings of masking element256A secondary first sensor point opening256B secondary second sensor point opening258tertiary sensor point openings of masking element258A tertiary first sensor point opening258B tertiary second sensor point opening260primary sensor point openings of first adhesive layer260A primary first sensor point opening260B primary second sensor point opening262secondary sensor point openings of first adhesive layer262A secondary first sensor point opening262B secondary second sensor point opening264tertiary sensor point openings of first adhesive layer264A tertiary first sensor point opening264B tertiary second sensor point opening270terminal interface region272terminal element(s)272A distal end of terminal element(s)272B proximal end of terminal element(s)274A distal part of terminal element(s)274B proximal part of terminal element(s)276A distal terminal element bend276B proximal terminal element bend278guide hole282ground terminal element282A ground terminal284first terminal element284A first terminal286second terminal element286A second terminal288third terminal element288A third terminal290fourth terminal element290A fourth terminal292fifth terminal element292A fifth terminal302first part of electrode assembly303second part of electrode assembly308reinforcement element308A distal side of reinforcement element308B proximal side of reinforcement element310openings311conductive paths314first elevated part700sensor assembly part1000method1002providing top layer1004providing second adhesive layer1006providing electrode assembly1008providing first adhesive layer1010assembling layers1016providing coupling part1018providing release linerM number of terminals in the first interface of the monitor device

The present disclosure relates to an ostomy system, devices thereof, method of manufacturing and method for monitoring an ostomy appliance. The ostomy appliance system comprises an ostomy appliance and an ostomy monitor device. In particular, the present disclosure relates to leakage classification and/or detection and monitoring of the operation of an ostomy appliance.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSThe accompanying drawings are included to provide a further understanding of embodiments and are incorporated into and a part of this specification. The drawings illustrate embodiments and together with the description serve to explain principles of embodiments. Other embodiments and many of the intended advantages of embodiments will be readily appreciated as they become better understood by reference to the following detailed description. The elements of the drawings are not necessarily to scale relative to each other. Like reference numerals designate corresponding similar parts.FIG.1illustrates an exemplary ostomy system,FIG.2illustrates an exemplary monitor device of the ostomy system,FIG.3is an exploded view of a base plate of an ostomy appliance,FIG.4is an exploded view of an exemplary electrode assembly,FIG.5is a proximal view of parts of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part,FIG.6is a distal view of an exemplary electrode configuration,FIG.7is a distal view of an exemplary masking element,FIG.8is a distal view of an exemplary first adhesive layer,FIG.9is a proximal view of the first adhesive layer ofFIG.8,FIG.10is a distal view of a part of the base plate and/or a sensor assembly part including a monitor interface,FIG.11illustrates an exploded view of an exemplary base plate,FIG.12illustrates an exploded view of an exemplary electrode assembly,FIG.13illustrates an exploded view of an exemplary electrode assembly,FIG.14shows an exemplary electrode configuration,FIG.15shows a schematic representation of part of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part,FIG.16shows a schematic representation of part of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part,FIG.17shows a schematic representation of part of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part,FIG.18shows a schematic representation of part of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part, andFIG.19shows a flowchart of an exemplary method.DETAILED DESCRIPTIONVarious exemplary embodiments and details are described hereinafter, with reference to the figures when relevant. It should be noted that the figures may or may not be drawn to scale and that elements of similar structures or functions are represented by like reference numerals throughout the figures. It should also be noted that the figures are only intended to facilitate the description of the embodiments. They are not intended as an exhaustive description of the invention or as a limitation on the scope of the invention. In addition, an illustrated embodiment needs not have all the aspects or advantages shown. An aspect or an advantage described in conjunction with a particular embodiment is not necessarily limited to that embodiment and can be practiced in any other embodiments even if not so illustrated, or if not so explicitly described.Throughout this disclosure, the words “stoma” and “ostomy” are used to denote a surgically created opening bypassing the intestines or urinary tract system of a person. The words are used interchangeably, and no differentiated meaning is intended. The same applies for any words or phrases derived from these, e.g. “stomal”, “ostomies” etc. Also, the solid and liquid wastes emanating from the stoma may be referred to as both stomal “output,” “waste(s),” and “fluids” interchangeably. A subject having undergone ostomy surgery may be referred to as “ostomist” or “ostomate”—moreover, also as “patient” or “user”. However, in some cases “user” may also relate or refer to a health care professional (HCP), such as a surgeon or an ostomy care nurse or others. In those cases, it will either be explicitly stated, or be implicit from the context that the “user” is not the “patient” him- or herself.In the following, whenever referring to proximal side or surface of a layer, an element, a device or part of a device, the referral is to the skin-facing side or surface, when a user wears the ostomy appliance. Likewise, whenever referring to the distal side or surface of a layer, an element, a device or part of a device, the referral is to the side or surface facing away from the skin, when a user wears the ostomy appliance. In other words, the proximal side or surface is the side or surface closest to the user, when the appliance is fitted on a user and the distal side is the opposite side or surface—the side or surface furthest away from the user in use.The axial direction is defined as the direction of the stoma, when a user wears the appliance. Thus, the axial direction is generally perpendicular to the skin or abdominal surface of the user.The radial direction is defined as perpendicular to the axial direction. In some sentences, the words “inner” and “outer” may be used. These qualifiers should generally be perceived with respect to the radial direction, such that a reference to an “outer” element means that the element is farther away from a centre portion of the ostomy appliance than an element referenced as “inner”. In addition, “innermost” should be interpreted as the portion of a component forming a centre of the component and/or being adjacent to the centre of the component. In analogy, “outermost” should be interpreted as a portion of a component forming an outer edge or outer contour of a component and/or being adjacent to that outer edge or outer contour.The use of the word “substantially” as a qualifier to certain features or effects in this disclosure is intended to simply mean that any deviations are within tolerances that would normally be expected by the skilled person in the relevant field.The use of the word “generally” as a qualifier to certain features or effects in this disclosure is intended to simply mean—for a structural feature: that a majority or major portion of such feature exhibits the characteristic in question, and—for a functional feature or an effect: that a majority of outcomes involving the characteristic provide the effect, but that exceptionally outcomes do no provide the effect.The present disclosure relates to an ostomy system and devices thereof, such as an ostomy appliance, a base plate for an ostomy appliance, a monitor device, and optionally one or more accessory devices. Further, methods related to the ostomy system and devices thereof are disclosed. An accessory device (also referred to as an external device) may be a mobile phone or other handheld device. An accessory device may be a personal electronic device, e.g. a wearable, such as a watch or other wrist-worn electronic device. An accessory device may be a docking station. The docking station may be configured to electrically and/or mechanically couple the monitor device to the docking station. The docking station may be configured for charging the monitor device and/or configured for transferring data between the monitor device and the docking station. The ostomy system may comprise a server device. The server device may be operated and/or controlled by the ostomy appliance manufacturer and/or a service centre.The present disclosure provides an ostomy system and devices thereof, such as an ostomy appliance, a base plate for an ostomy appliance, a monitor device, and optionally one or more accessory devices which either alone or together facilitate reliable determination of the nature, severity and rapidness of moisture propagation in the adhesive material provided for attaching the base plate to the skin surface of a user. Depending on the nature of the pattern of moisture propagation in the adhesive, the ostomy system and devices thereof enable providing information to the user about the type of failure, and in turn enable providing an indication to the user of the severity and thus the remaining time frame for replacing the ostomy appliance without experiencing severe leakage and/or skin damage.The ostomy appliance comprises a base plate and an ostomy pouch (also referred to as an ostomy bag). The ostomy appliance may be a colostomy appliance, an ileostomy appliance or a urostomy appliance. The ostomy appliance may be a two-part ostomy appliance, i.e. the base plate and the ostomy pouch may be releasably coupled e.g. with a mechanical and/or an adhesive coupling, e.g. to allow that a plurality of ostomy pouches can be utilized (exchanged) with one base plate. Further, a two-part ostomy appliance may facilitate correct application of the base plate to skin, e.g. to an improved user sight of the stomal region. The ostomy appliance may be a one-part ostomy appliance, i.e. the base plate and the ostomy pouch may be fixedly attached to each other. The base plate is configured for coupling to a user's stoma and/or skin surrounding the stoma, such as a peristomal skin area.The ostomy appliance includes a base plate, such as a monolithic, one-piece base plate, e.g. integrated with a sensor assembly part, or a base plate and a separate sensor assembly part, such as a sensor assembly part to be subsequently applied to a base plate. For example, to allow an arbitrary base plate, such as a conventional base plate, to achieve the features as described herein. Features as described with respect to the base plate herein may be provided by a sensor assembly part to be applied to a base plate, e.g. by the user. A sensor assembly part may be adapted to adhere to an ostomy plate.A disclosed method of attaching a base plate to a user's stoma and/or skin surrounding the stoma, such as the peristomal skin area, may comprise attaching a sensor assembly part to a base plate and attaching the base plate, e.g. together with the attached sensor assembly part, to the user's stoma and/or skin surrounding the stoma, such as the peristomal skin area. Alternatively, the method of attaching the base plate to the user's stoma and/or skin surrounding the stoma may comprise attaching the sensor assembly part to the user's stoma and/or skin surrounding the stoma and attaching the base plate to the user's stoma and/or skin surrounding the stoma above the attached sensor assembly part.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part comprises a first adhesive layer, also denoted center adhesive layer. During use, the first adhesive layer adheres to the user's skin (peristomal area) and/or to additional seals, such as sealing paste, sealing tape and/or sealing ring. Thus, the first adhesive layer may be configured for attachment of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part to the skin surface of a user. The first adhesive layer may have a stomal opening, such as a first adhesive stomal opening, with a center point.The first adhesive layer may be made of a first composition. The first composition may comprise one or more polyisobutenes and/or styrene-isoprene-styrene. The first composition may comprise one or more hydrocolloids. The first composition may comprise one or more water soluble or water swellable hydrocolloids.The first composition may be a pressure sensitive adhesive composition suitable for medical purposes comprising a rubbery elastomeric base and one or more water soluble or water swellable hydrocolloids. The first composition may comprise one or more polybutenes, one or more styrene copolymers, one or more hydrocolloids, or any combination thereof. The combination of the adhesive properties of the polybutenes and the absorbing properties of the hydrocolloids renders the first composition suitable for use in ostomy appliances. The styrene copolymer may for example be a styrene-butadiene-styrene block copolymer or a styrene-isoprene-styrene block copolymer. Preferably, one or more styrene-isoprene-styrene (SIS) block type copolymers are employed. The amount of styrene block-copolymer may be from 5% to 20% of the total adhesive composition. The butene component is suitably a conjugated butadiene polymer selected from polybutadiene, polyisoprene. The polybutenes are preferably present in an amount of from 35-50% of the total adhesive composition. Preferably, the polybutene is polyisobutylene (PIB). Suitable hydrocolloids for incorporation in the first composition are selected from naturally occurring hydrocolloids, semisynthetic hydrocolloids and synthetic hydrocolloids. The first composition may comprise 20-60% hydrocolloids. A preferred hydrocolloid is carboxymethylcellulose (CMC). The first composition may optionally contain other components, such as fillers, tackifiers, plasticizers, and other additives.The first adhesive layer may have a plurality of sensor point openings. A sensor point opening of the first adhesive layer is optionally configured to overlap a part of an electrode, e.g. to form a sensor point.The sensor point openings of the first adhesive layer may comprise primary sensor point openings. The primary sensor point openings may comprise one or more primary first sensor point openings and one or more primary second sensor point openings, the primary first sensor point openings configured to overlap parts of an electrode and the primary second sensor point openings configured to overlap parts of another electrode different from the electrode at least partly overlapped by the primary first sensor point openings.The sensor point openings of the first adhesive layer may comprise secondary sensor point openings. The secondary sensor point openings may comprise one or more secondary first sensor point openings and one or more secondary second sensor point openings, the secondary first sensor point openings configured to overlap parts of an electrode and the secondary second sensor point openings configured to overlap parts of another electrode different from the electrode at least partly overlapped by the secondary first sensor point openings.The sensor point openings of the first adhesive layer may comprise tertiary sensor point openings. The tertiary sensor point openings may comprise one or more tertiary first sensor point openings and one or more tertiary second sensor point openings, the tertiary first sensor point openings configured to overlap parts of an electrode and the tertiary second sensor point openings configured to overlap parts of another electrode different from the electrode at least partly overlapped by the tertiary first sensor point openings.The first adhesive layer may have a substantially uniform thickness. The first adhesive layer may have a thickness in the range from 0.1 mm to 1.5 mm, e.g. in the range from 0.2 mm to 1.2 mm.The first adhesive layer may have a primary thickness in a primary part of the first adhesive layer, e.g. in a primary region within a primary radial distance or in a primary radial distance range from the center point of the stomal opening. The primary thickness may be in the range from 0.2 mm to 1.5 mm. such as about 1.0 mm. The primary radial distance may be in the range from 20 mm to 50 mm, such as in the range from 25 mm to 35 mm, e.g. 30 mm.The first adhesive layer may have a secondary thickness in a secondary part of the first adhesive layer, e.g. in a secondary region outside a secondary radial distance or in a secondary radial distance range from the center point of the stomal opening. The secondary thickness may be in the range from 0.2 mm to 1.0 mm, such as about 0.5 mm. The secondary radial distance may be in the range from 20 mm to 50 mm, such as in the range from 25 mm to 35 mm, e.g. 30 mm.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a second layer. The second layer may be a second adhesive layer, also denoted rim adhesive layer. The second layer may have a second radial extension that is larger than a first radial extension of the first adhesive layer at least in a first angular range of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. Accordingly, a part of a proximal surface of the second layer may be configured for attachment to the skin surface of a user. The part of a proximal surface of the second layer configured for attachment to the skin surface of a user is also denoted the skin attachment surface of the second adhesive layer. The second layer may have a stomal opening, such as a second layer stomal opening and/or a second adhesive stomal opening, with a center point.The second adhesive layer may be made of a second composition. The second composition may comprise one or more polyisobutenes and/or styrene-isoprene-styrene. The second composition may comprise one or more hydrocolloids. The second composition may comprise one or more water soluble or water swellable hydrocolloids.The second composition may be a pressure sensitive adhesive composition suitable for medical purposes comprising a rubbery elastomeric base and one or more water soluble or water swellable hydrocolloids. The second composition may comprise one or more polybutenes, one or more styrene copolymers, one or more hydrocolloids, or any combination thereof. The combination of the adhesive properties of the polybutenes and the absorbing properties of the hydrocolloids renders the second composition suitable for use in ostomy appliances. The styrene copolymer may for example be a styrene-butadiene-styrene block copolymer or a styrene-isoprene-styrene block copolymer. Preferably, one or more styrene-isoprene-styrene (SIS) block type copolymers are employed. The amount of styrene block-copolymer may be from 5% to 20% of the total adhesive composition. The butene component is suitably a conjugated butadiene polymer selected from polybutadiene, polyisoprene. The polybutenes are preferably present in an amount of from 35-50% of the total adhesive composition. Preferably, the polybutene is polyisobutylene (PIB). Suitable hydrocolloids for incorporation in the second composition are selected from naturally occurring hydrocolloids, semisynthetic hydrocolloids and synthetic hydrocolloids. The second composition may comprise 20-60% hydrocolloids. A preferred hydrocolloid is carboxymethylcellulose (CMC). The second composition may optionally contain other components, such as fillers, tackifiers, plasticizers, and other additives.Different ratio of contents may change properties of the first and/or second adhesive layers. The second adhesive layer and the first adhesive layer may have different properties. The second adhesive layer (second composition) and the first adhesive layer (first composition) may have different ratios of polyisobutenes, styrene-isoprene-styrene, and/or hydrocolloids. For example, the second adhesive layer may provide a stronger attachment to the skin compared to attachment to the skin provided by the first adhesive layer. Alternatively or additionally, the second adhesive layer may be thinner than the first adhesive layer. Alternatively or additionally, the second adhesive layer may be less water and/or sweat absorbing than the first adhesive layer. Alternatively or additionally, the second adhesive layer may be less mouldable than the first adhesive layer. The second adhesive layer may provide a second barrier against leakage.The second layer may have a substantially uniform thickness. The second layer may have a thickness in the range from 0.1 mm to 1.5 mm, e.g. in the range from 0.2 mm to 1.0 mm, such as 0.5 mm, 0.6 mm, or 0.7 mm.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise one or more electrodes, such as a plurality of electrodes, such as two, three, four, five, six, seven or more electrodes. The sensor assembly part may be applied to the base plate, such as to provide the base plate with the one or more electrodes.The electrodes, e.g. some or all the electrodes, may be arranged between the first adhesive layer and the second adhesive layer. The electrodes may be arranged in an electrode assembly, e.g. an electrode layer. An electrode comprises a connection part for connecting the electrodes to other components and/or interface terminals. An electrode may comprise one or more conductor parts and/or one or more sensing parts. The electrode assembly may be arranged between the first adhesive layer and the second adhesive layer. The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, e.g. the electrode assembly, may comprise a first electrode, a second electrode and optionally a third electrode. The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, e.g. the electrode assembly, may comprise a fourth electrode and/or a fifth electrode. The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, e.g. the electrode assembly, optionally comprises a sixth electrode. The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, e.g. the electrode assembly, may comprise a ground electrode. The ground electrode may comprise a first electrode part. The first electrode part of the ground electrode may form a ground for the first electrode. The ground electrode may comprise a second electrode part. The second electrode part of the ground electrode may form a ground for the second electrode. The ground electrode may comprise a third electrode part. The third electrode part of the ground electrode may form a ground for the third electrode. The ground electrode may comprise a fourth electrode part. The fourth electrode part of the ground electrode may form a ground for the fourth electrode and/or the fifth electrode.The ground electrode or electrode parts of the ground electrode may be configured as or form a (common) reference electrode for some or all of the other electrodes of the electrode assembly. The ground electrode may also be denoted reference electrode.The electrodes are electrically conductive and may comprise one or more of metallic (e.g. silver, copper, gold, titanium, aluminium, stainless steel), ceramic (e.g. ITO), polymeric (e.g. PEDOT, PANI, PPy), and carbonaceous (e.g. carbon black, carbon nanotube, carbon fibre, graphene, graphite) materials.Two electrodes of the electrode assembly may form a sensor. The first electrode and the ground electrode (e.g. first electrode part of the ground electrode) may form a first sensor or first electrode pair. The second electrode and the ground electrode (e.g. second electrode part of the ground electrode) may form a second sensor or second electrode pair. The third electrode and the ground electrode (e.g. third electrode part of the ground electrode) may form a third sensor or third electrode pair. The fourth electrode and the ground electrode (e.g. fourth electrode part of the ground electrode) may form a fourth sensor or fourth electrode pair. The fifth electrode and the ground electrode (e.g. fifth electrode part of the ground electrode) may form a fifth sensor or fifth electrode pair.The first electrode may form an open loop. The second electrode may form an open loop and/or the third electrode may form an open loop. The fourth electrode may form an open loop. The fifth electrode may form an open loop. Open loop electrode(s) enables electrode arrangement in few or a single electrode layer.The electrode assembly may comprise a support layer, also denoted a support film. One or more electrodes may be formed, e.g. printed, on the proximal side of the support layer. One or more electrodes may be formed, e.g. printed, on the distal side of the support layer. The electrode assembly, such as the support layer of the electrode assembly, may have a stomal opening, such as an electrode assembly stomal opening and/or a support layer stomal opening, with a center point.The support layer may comprise polymeric (e.g. polyurethane, PTFE, PVDF) and/or ceramic (e.g. alumina, silica) materials. In one or more exemplary base plates and/or sensor assembly parts, the support layer is made of thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU). The support layer material may be made of or comprise one or more of polyester, a thermoplastic elastomer (TPE), polyimide, polyimide, Ethylene-vinyl acetate (EVA), polyurea, and silicones.Exemplary thermoplastic elastomers of the support layer are styrenic block copolymers (TPS, TPE-s), thermoplastic polyolefinelastomers (TPO, TPE-o), thermoplastic Vulcanizates (TPV, TPE-v), thermoplastic polyurethanes (TPU), thermoplastic copolyester (TPC, TPE-E), and thermoplastic polyamides (TPA, TPE-A).The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, such as the electrode assembly may comprise a masking element configured to insulate at least parts of the electrodes from the first adhesive layer of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The masking element may comprise one or more, such as a plurality of, sensor point openings. The sensor point openings may comprise primary sensor point openings and/or secondary sensor point openings. The sensor point openings may comprise tertiary sensor point opening(s). The sensor point openings may comprise quaternary sensor point opening(s) A sensor point opening of the masking element overlaps at least one electrode of the electrode assembly when seen in the axial direction, e.g. to form a sensor point. For example, a primary sensor point opening may overlap a part of the ground electrode and/or a part of the fourth electrode. A secondary sensor point opening may overlap a part of the fourth electrode and/or a part of the fifth electrode. A tertiary sensor point opening may overlap a part of the fifth electrode and/or a part of the ground electrode.The masking element may comprise one or more, such as a plurality of, terminal openings. The masking element may comprise polymeric (e.g. polyurethane, PTFE, PVDF) and/or ceramic (e.g. alumina, silica) materials. In one or more exemplary base plates and/or sensor assembly parts, the masking element is made of or comprises thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU). In one or more exemplary base plates and/or sensor assembly parts, the masking element is made of or comprises polyester. The masking element material may be made of or comprise one or more of polyester, a thermoplastic elastomer (TPE), polyimide, polyimide, Ethylene-vinyl acetate (EVA), polyurea, and silicones.Exemplary thermoplastic elastomers of the masking element are styrenic block copolymers (TPS, TPE-s), thermoplastic polyolefinelastomers (TPO, TPE-o), thermoplastic Vulcanizates (TPV, TPE-v), thermoplastic polyurethanes (TPU), thermoplastic copolyester (TPC, TPE-E), and thermoplastic polyamides (TPA, TPE-A).The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a first intermediate element. The first intermediate element may be arranged between the electrodes/electrode layer and the first adhesive layer and/or between the second layer and the first adhesive layer. The first intermediate layer may be made of an insulating material.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a release liner. The release liner is a protective layer that protects adhesive layer(s) during transport and storage and is peeled off by the user prior to applying the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part on the skin. The release liner may have a stomal opening, such as a release liner stomal opening, with a center point.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a top layer. The top layer is a protective layer protecting the adhesive layer(s) from external strains and stress when the user wears the ostomy appliance. The electrodes, e.g. some or all the electrodes, may be arranged between the first adhesive layer and the top layer. The top layer may have a stomal opening, such as a top layer stomal opening, with a center point. The top layer may have a thickness in the range from 0.01 mm to 1.0 mm, e.g. in the range from 0.02 mm to 0.2 mm, such as 0.04 mm.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a monitor interface. The monitor interface may be configured for electrically and/or mechanically connecting the ostomy appliance (base plate and/or sensor assembly part) to the monitor device. The monitor interface may be configured for wirelessly connecting the ostomy appliance (base plate and/or sensor assembly part) to the monitor device. Thus, the monitor interface of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part is configured to electrically and/or mechanically couple the ostomy appliance and the monitor device.The monitor interface of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise, e.g. as part of a first connector of the monitor interface, a coupling part for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling between the monitor device and the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The coupling part may be configured to engage with a coupling part of the monitor device for releasably coupling the monitor device to the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.The monitor interface of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise, e.g. as part of a first connector of the monitor interface, a plurality of terminals, such as two, three, four, five, six, seven or more terminals, for forming electrical connections with respective terminals of the monitor device. The monitor interface may comprise a ground terminal element forming a ground terminal. The monitor interface may comprise a first terminal element forming a first terminal, a second terminal element forming a second terminal and optionally a third terminal element forming a third terminal. The monitor interface may comprise a fourth terminal element forming a fourth terminal and/or a fifth terminal element forming a fifth terminal. The monitor interface optionally comprises a sixth terminal element forming a sixth terminal. The terminal elements of the monitor interface may contact respective electrodes of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, such as the electrode assembly of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The first intermediate element may be arranged between the terminal elements and the first adhesive layer. The first intermediate element may cover or overlap terminal element(s) of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part when seen in the axial direction. Thus, the first adhesive layer may be protected or experience more evenly distributed mechanical stress from the terminal elements of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, in turn reducing the risk of terminal elements penetrating or otherwise damaging the first adhesive layer. The first intermediate element may protect or mechanically and/or electrically shield the first adhesive layer from the terminal elements of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.A terminal element, such as the ground terminal element, the first terminal element, the second terminal element, the third terminal element, the fourth terminal element, the fifth terminal element and/or the sixth terminal element, may comprise a distal end and a proximal end. A terminal element, such as the ground terminal element, the first terminal element, the second terminal element, the third terminal element, the fourth terminal element, the fifth terminal element and/or the sixth terminal element, may comprise a distal part, a centre part, and/or a proximal part. The distal part may be between the distal end and the centre part. The proximal part may be between the proximal end and the centre part. A terminal element, such as the ground terminal element, the first terminal element, the second terminal element, the third terminal element, the fourth terminal element, the fifth terminal element and/or the sixth terminal element, may be gold plated copper.The base plate may comprise a coupling ring or other coupling member for coupling an ostomy pouch to the base plate (two-part ostomy appliance). The center point may be defined as a center of the coupling ring.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may have a stomal opening, e.g. with a center point. The stomal opening of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may be formed collectively of stomal opening(s) of the layers of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, such as of the top layer, the first adhesive layer, the second layer and/or the sensor assembly part. The stomal opening(s) of the layers of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, such as of the top layer, the first adhesive layer, the second layer and/or the sensor assembly part may be aligned to form the stomal opening of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The stomal opening may be a through-going passage of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The stomal opening may be arranged substantially in the center of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The stomal opening(s) of the layers of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may be arranged substantially in the center of the respective layer. The stomal opening may be configured to receive a stoma of the user and/or the stomal opening may be configured to allow output from the stoma to pass through the stomal opening an into an ostomy pouch attached to the base plate. For example, the stomal opening may be configured to allow passage of output from a proximal side of the base plate and/or sensor assembly part to a distal side of the base plate and/or sensor assembly part. The size and/or shape of the stomal opening may typically be adjusted by the user or nurse before application of the ostomy appliance to accommodate the user's stoma. In one or more exemplary base plates or sensor assembly parts, the user forms the stomal opening during preparation of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part for application.The monitor device comprises a processor and one or more interfaces, such as a first interface and/or a second interface. The monitor device may comprise a memory for storing ostomy data.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the processor is configured to apply a processing scheme, the first interface is connected to the processor and the memory, and the first interface is configured for collecting ostomy data from the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part coupled to the first interface. The ostomy data may comprise one or more, such as all, of first ostomy data from a first electrode pair of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, second ostomy data from a second electrode pair of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, and third ostomy data from a third electrode pair of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. A second interface is connected to the processor. To apply a processing scheme may comprise one or more of obtain first parameter data based on the first ostomy data; obtain second parameter data based on the second ostomy data; and obtain third parameter data based on the third ostomy data. To apply a processing scheme may comprise determine an operating state of the base plate of the ostomy appliance based on one or more, such as all, of the first parameter data, the second parameter data and the third parameter data. The operating state may be indicative of a degree of radial erosion of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, such as of the first adhesive layer, and/or an acute leakage risk for the ostomy appliance. The monitor device is configured to, in accordance with a determination that the operating state is a first operating state, transmit a first monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the first operating state of the base plate via the second interface; and/or in accordance with a determination that the operating state is a second operating state, transmit a second monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the second operating state of the base plate via the second interface.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the first operating state of the base plate corresponds to a situation wherein the first adhesive layer of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part has experienced a first degree of radial erosion, e.g. the first adhesive layer is eroded to a first radial distance of the first electrode pair but not to a second radial distance of the second electrode pair.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the second operating state of the base plate corresponds to a situation wherein the first adhesive layer of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part has experienced a second degree of radial erosion, e.g. the first adhesive layer is eroded to the second radial distance of the second electrode pair but not to a third radial distance of the third electrode pair.To obtain first parameter data based on the first ostomy data may comprise determining one or more first parameters based on the first ostomy data. To obtain second parameter data based on the second ostomy data may comprise determining one or more second parameters based on the second ostomy data. To obtain third parameter data based on the third ostomy data may comprise determining one or more third parameters based on the third ostomy data. In one or more exemplary monitor devices, determination of an operating state may be based on one or more first parameters, such as first primary parameter and/or first secondary parameter of first parameter data. In one or more exemplary monitor devices, determination of an operating state may be based on one or more second parameters, such as second primary parameter and/or second secondary parameter of the second parameter data. In one or more exemplary monitor devices, determination of an operating state may be based on one or more third parameters, such as third primary parameter and/or third secondary parameter of the third parameter data. In one or more exemplary monitor devices, determination of an operating state may be based on one or more fourth parameters, such as fourth primary parameter and/or fourth secondary parameter of the fourth parameter data.The first parameter data, the second parameter data, and the third parameter data may be indicative of resistance between the first electrode pair, the second electrode pair, and the third electrode pair, respectively.The first parameter data, the second parameter data, and the third parameter data may be indicative of a rate of change in resistance between the first electrode pair, the second electrode pair, and the third electrode pair, respectively.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, to determine an operating state of the base plate is based on a first criteria set based on the first parameter data and/or the second parameter data, wherein the operating state is determined to be the first operating state if the first criteria set is satisfied. The first criteria set may comprise one or more first criteria based on one or more of first parameter data, second parameter data and third parameter data. The first criteria set may comprise a first primary criterion based on the first parameter data. The first criteria set may comprise a first secondary criterion based on the second parameter data. The first criteria set may comprise a first tertiary criterion based on the third parameter data.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, to determine an operating state of the base plate may be based on a first threshold set comprising one or a plurality of first threshold values. The first threshold set may comprise one or a plurality of threshold values, e.g. to be applied in the first criteria set. The first threshold set may comprise a first primary threshold value. The first threshold set may comprise a first secondary threshold value. The first threshold set may comprise a first tertiary threshold value.The first criteria set may be given by(P_1_1<TH_1_1),(P_2_1>TH_1_2), and(P_3_1>TH_1_3),wherein P_1_1 is a first primary parameter based on the first parameter data, TH_1_1 is a first primary threshold value, P_2_1 is a second primary parameter based on the second parameter data, TH_1_2 is a first secondary threshold value, P_3_1 is a third primary parameter based on the third parameter data, and TH_1_3 is a first tertiary threshold value, and wherein the first operating state is indicative of low degree of radial erosion on the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The first threshold values (TH_1_1, TH_1_2 and TH_1_3) may be the same or different, e.g. depending on the electrode configuration of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The first tertiary criterion (P_3_1<TH1_3) may be omitted in the first criteria set.The first primary parameter P_1_1 may be indicative of the resistance between the first electrode pair (first electrode and first electrode part of the ground electrode) of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.The second primary parameter may be indicative of the resistance between the second electrode pair (second electrode and second electrode part of the ground electrode) of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.The third primary parameter may be indicative of resistance between the third electrode pair (third electrode and third electrode part of the ground electrode) of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, to determine an operating state of the base plate is based on a second criteria set based on the second parameter data and/or the third parameter data, wherein the operating state is determined to be the second operating state if the second criteria set is satisfied. The second criteria set may be based on the first parameter data.The second criteria set may comprise one or more second criteria based on one or more of first parameter data, second parameter data and third parameter data. The second criteria set may comprise a second primary criterion based on the first parameter data. The second criteria set may comprise a second secondary criterion based on the second parameter data. The second criteria set may comprise a second tertiary criterion based on the third parameter data.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, to determine an operating state of the base plate is based on a second threshold set comprising one or a plurality of second threshold values. The second threshold set may comprise one or a plurality of threshold values, e.g. to be applied in the second criteria set. The second threshold set may comprise a second primary threshold value. The second threshold set may comprise a second secondary threshold value. The second threshold set may comprise a second tertiary threshold value.The second criteria set may be given by(P_1_1<TH_2_1),(P_2_1<TH_2_2), and(P_3_1>TH_2_3)wherein P_1_1 is a first primary parameter based on the first parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the first electrode pair, TH_2_1 is a second primary threshold value, P_2_1 is a second primary parameter based on the second parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the second electrode pair, TH_2_2 is a second secondary threshold value, P_3_1 is a third primary parameter based on the third parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the third electrode pair, TH_2_3 is a second tertiary threshold value, and wherein the second operating state is indicative of medium degree of radial erosion on the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The second threshold values (TH_2_1, TH_2_2 and TH_2_3) may be the same or different, e.g. depending on the electrode configuration of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The second primary criterion (P_1_1<TH_2_1) and/or the second tertiary criterion (P_3_1>TH_2_3) may be omitted in the second criteria set.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, to determine an operating state of the base plate is based on a default criteria set based on the first parameter data, wherein the operating state is determined to be the default operating state if the default criteria set is satisfied, and in accordance with a determination that the operating state is the default operating state, transmit a default monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the default operating state of the ostomy appliance.The default criteria set may be given by(P_1_1>TH_D_1),(P_2_1>TH_D_2), and(P_3_1>TH_D_3)wherein P_1_1 is a first primary parameter based on the first parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the first electrode pair, TH_D_1 is a default primary threshold value, P_2_1 is a second primary parameter based on the second parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the second electrode pair, TH_D_2 is a default secondary threshold value, P_3_1 is a third primary parameter based on the third parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the third electrode pair, TH_D_3 is a default tertiary threshold value, and wherein the default operating state is indicative of very low or no degree of radial erosion on the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The default threshold values (TH_D_1, TH_D_2 and TH_D_3) may be the same or different, e.g. depending on the electrode configuration of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, to determine an operating state of the base plate is based on a third criteria set based on the third parameter data, wherein the operating state is determined to be the third operating state if the third criteria set is satisfied, and in accordance with a determination that the operating state is the third operating state, transmit a third monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the third operating state of the ostomy appliance.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the third operating state of the base plate corresponds to a situation wherein the first adhesive layer of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part has experienced a third degree of radial erosion, e.g. the first adhesive layer is eroded to the third radial distance of the third electrode pair.The third criteria set may be given by(P_1_1<TH_3_1),(P_2_1<TH_3_2), and(P_3_1<TH_3_3)wherein P_1_1 is a first primary parameter based on the first parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the first electrode pair, TH_3_1 is a third primary threshold value, P_2_1 is a second primary parameter based on the second parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the second electrode pair, TH_3_2 is a third secondary threshold value, P_3_1 is a third primary parameter based on the third parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the third electrode pair, TH_3_3 is a third tertiary threshold value, and wherein the third operating state is indicative of high degree of radial erosion on the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The third threshold values (TH_3_1, TH_3_2 and TH_3_3) may be the same or different, e.g. depending on the electrode configuration of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The third primary criterion (P_1_1<TH_3_1) and/or the third secondary criterion (P_2_1<TH_3_2) may be omitted in the third criteria set.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the ostomy data comprises fourth ostomy data from a fourth electrode pair of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. To apply a processing scheme may comprise to obtain fourth parameter data based on the fourth ostomy data, and determine an operating state of the base plate of the ostomy appliance based on the fourth parameter data. The monitor device may be configured to, in accordance with a determination that the operating state is a fourth operating state, transmit a fourth monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the fourth operating state of the ostomy appliance.In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the fourth operating state of the base plate corresponds to a situation, wherein the fourth electrode pair detects fluid, such as output, between the distal surface of first adhesive layer and the skin of the user at a fourth radial distance, and thus there is a high risk of leakage from the ostomy appliance in the fourth operating state.The fourth criteria set may be given by(P_4_1<TH_4_4)wherein P_4_1 is a fourth primary parameter based on the fourth parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the fourth electrode pair and TH_4_4 is a fourth quaternary threshold value, and wherein the fourth operating state is indicative of high risk of leakage from the ostomy appliance.The monitor device comprises a monitor device housing optionally made of a plastic material. The monitor device housing may be an elongate housing having a first end and a second end. The monitor device housing may have a length or maximum extension along a longitudinal axis in the range from 1 cm to 15 cm. The monitor device housing may have a width or maximum extension perpendicular to the longitudinal axis in the range from 0.5 cm to 3 cm. The monitor device housing may be curve-shaped.The monitor device comprises a first interface. The first interface may be configured as an appliance interface for electrically and/or mechanically connecting the monitor device to the ostomy appliance. Thus, the appliance interface is configured to electrically and/or mechanically couple the monitor device and the ostomy appliance. The first interface may be configured as an accessory device interface for electrically and/or mechanically connecting the monitor device to an accessory device, such as a docking station. The first interface may be configured for coupling to a docking station of the ostomy system, e.g. for charging the monitor device and/or for data transfer between the monitor device and the docking station.The first interface of the monitor device may comprise a plurality of terminals, such as two, three, four, five, six, seven or more terminals, for forming electrical connections with respective terminals and/or electrodes of the ostomy appliance. One or more terminals of the first interface may be configured for forming electrical connections with an accessory device, e.g. with respective terminals of a docking station. The first interface may comprise a ground terminal. The first interface may comprise a first terminal, a second terminal and optionally a third terminal. The first interface may comprise a fourth terminal and/or a fifth terminal. The first interface optionally comprises a sixth terminal. In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the first interface has M terminals, wherein M is an integer in the range from 4 to 8.The first interface of the monitor device may comprise a coupling part (may alternatively be denoted a device coupling part or a monitor device coupling part) for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling between the monitor device and the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The coupling part and the terminals of the first interface form (at least part of) a first connector of the monitor device.The monitor device comprises a power unit for powering the monitor device. The power unit may comprise a battery. The power unit may comprise charging circuitry connected to the battery and terminals of the first interface for charging the battery via the first interface, e.g. the first connector. The first interface may comprise separate charging terminal(s) for charging the battery.The monitor device may comprise a sensor unit with one or more sensor. The sensor unit is connected to the processor for feeding sensor data to the processor. The sensor unit may comprise an accelerometer for sensing acceleration and provision of acceleration data to the processor. The sensor unit may comprise a temperature sensor for provision of temperature data to the processor.The monitor device comprises a second interface connected to the processor. The second interface may be configured as an accessory interface for connecting, e.g. wirelessly connecting, the monitor device to one or more accessory devices. The second interface may comprise an antenna and a wireless transceiver, e.g. configured for wireless communication at frequencies in the range from 2.4 to 2.5 GHz. The wireless transceiver may be a Bluetooth transceiver, i.e. the wireless transceiver may be configured for wireless communication according to Bluetooth protocol, e.g. Bluetooth Low Energy, Bluetooth 4.0, Bluetooth 5. The second interface optionally comprises a loudspeaker and/or a haptic feedback element for provision of an audio signal and/or haptic feedback to the user, respectively.In one or more exemplary ostomy systems, the monitor device forms an integrated part of the ostomy appliance, e.g. the monitor device may form an integrated part of a base plate and/or the sensor assembly part of the ostomy appliance.The ostomy system may comprise a docking station forming an accessory device of the ostomy system. The docking station may be configured to electrically and/or mechanically couple the monitor device to the docking station.The docking station may comprise a docking monitor interface. The docking monitor interface may be configured for electrically and/or mechanically connecting the monitor device to the docking station. The docking monitor interface may be configured for wirelessly connecting the monitor device to the docking station. The docking monitor interface of the docking station may be configured to electrically and/or mechanically couple the docking station and the monitor device.The docking monitor interface of the docking station may comprise, e.g. as part of a first connector of the docking monitor interface, a coupling part for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling between the monitor device and the docking station. The coupling part may be configured to engage with a coupling part of the monitor device for releasably coupling the monitor device to the docking station.The docking monitor interface of the docking station may comprise, e.g. as part of a first connector of the docking monitor interface, a plurality of terminals, such as two, three, four, five, six, seven or more terminals, for forming electrical connections with respective terminals of the monitor device. The docking monitor interface may comprise a ground terminal. The docking monitor interface may comprise a first terminal and/or a second terminal. The docking station may comprise a third terminal. The docking monitor interface may comprise a fourth terminal and/or a fifth terminal. The docking monitor interface optionally comprises a sixth terminal.Disclosed is a base plate for an ostomy appliance, such as a base plate as described above. Also, a sensor assembly part for an ostomy appliance is disclosed, such as a sensor assembly part for being applied to a base plate. The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise: a top layer, a first adhesive layer, an electrode assembly comprising a plurality of electrodes; and a monitor interface configured for connecting the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part to a monitor device, such as mechanically connecting and/or electrically connecting the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part to a monitor device. The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise additional layers and/or features as described above.The electrode assembly may have a first part and a second part. The first part may comprise connection parts of the plurality of electrodes. The second part may comprise sensing part of the plurality of electrodes. The electrode assembly, such as the second part of the electrode assembly, may be arranged between the first adhesive layer and the top layer.The monitor interface may comprise a plurality of terminals electrically connected to the plurality of electrodes and configured to connect with respective terminals of the monitor device. The connection parts may form the plurality of terminals of the monitor interface.The first adhesive layer may be provided such as to not cover a primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly. For example, the first adhesive layer may extend over a first area in a base plate plane and/or in a sensor assembly part plane, and the first part of the electrode assembly may be outside the first area.Also disclosed is a device for connecting to a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part of an ostomy appliance, such as the above disclosed base plate. The device may be a monitor device, e.g. such as a monitor device as disclosed above. The monitor device may be configured to measure electrical parameters using electrodes of the base plate and/or sensor assembly part. The device may comprise electronic circuitry. The electronic circuitry may include a processor. The electronic circuitry may be enclosed by the device housing.The device may comprise an appliance interface, e.g. configured for connecting the device to the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The appliance interface may comprise a plurality of terminals, e.g. for forming electrical connection with a plurality of electrodes of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The appliance interface may comprise a device coupling part. The device coupling part may provide for coupling between the device and the base plate.Also disclosed is a method for manufacturing a base plate or a sensor assembly part, such as a base plate or a sensor assembly part for an ostomy appliance, such as the base plate or the sensor assembly part as disclosed above.The method may comprise: providing a top layer; providing an electrode assembly comprising a plurality of electrodes; and providing a first adhesive layer.The electrode assembly may have a first part and a second part. The first part may comprise connection parts of the plurality of electrodes. The second part may comprise sensing part of the plurality of electrodes.The method may further comprise assembling the top layer, the electrode assembly and the first adhesive layer, e.g. such that the electrode assembly, such as the second part of the electrode assembly, is arranged between the first adhesive layer and the top layer.The first adhesive layer may be provided such that a primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly is not covered by the first adhesive. For example, the first adhesive layer may be provided to extend over a first area in a base plate plane and/or in a sensor assembly part plane, and the first part of the electrode assembly may be outside the first area.By providing the first adhesive layer such that it does not cover a primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly, the first part may be accessible for connecting the electrode assembly, such as the plurality of electrodes of the electrode assembly, to connecting parts, such as terminals of a monitor device. For example, the connection parts may be accessible for the terminals of the monitor device, by the first part of the electrode assembly not being covered by the first adhesive.The top layer, the electrode assembly and/or the first adhesive layer may be substantially planar. The top layer, the electrode assembly and/or the first adhesive layer may extend in a base plate plane and/or in a sensor assembly part plane.A release liner may be provided on the proximal side of the first adhesive layer. The first adhesive layer may be provided with a release liner on the proximal side of the first adhesive layer. The release liner may have a distal side facing the first adhesive layer. The first adhesive layer may be provided, such as formed, on the release liner, such as on a distal side of the release liner, e.g. by scraping a thin layer of a first composition, such as a first adhesive composition, onto the release liner to form the first adhesive layer. For example, the first adhesive layer may be provided on the release liner by scraping a first composition, such as a first adhesive composition, onto the release liner. The first adhesive layer may be formed on the release liner prior to assembling the top layer, the electrode assembly and the first adhesive layer.The release liner may be provided with one or more protrusions or elevated parts, such that upon scraping of the first composition on the distal side of the release liner, the first composition is not provided on the protruding or elevated parts. Thereby, holes, indents etc. may be provided in the first adhesive layer.The release liner may be provided with one or more elevated parts, such as a first elevated part. The first elevated part may provide an exempt area of the release liner whereon the first composition is not disposed. The exempt area and/or the first elevated part may be aligned with the first part of the electrode assembly, e.g. after the first composition is provided on the release liner. For example, the first elevated part may prevent the first composition to be disposed on the first elevated part. Thereby, the first adhesive layer may be formed with an exempt area, i.e. an area of the release liner not covered by the first composition. The first adhesive layer and/or the release liner may be positioned such that the exempt area and/or the first elevated part of the release liner is aligned with the with the first part of the electrode assembly, such that the first adhesive layer does not cover the first part of the electrode assembly.The electrode assembly may be provided between the top layer and the first adhesive layer. A distal side of the electrode assembly may be facing the top layer. A proximal side of the electrode assembly may be facing the first adhesive layer.The plurality of electrodes may be provided on a proximal side of the electrode assembly.The electrode assembly may comprise a support layer. The plurality of electrodes may be provided on the proximal side of the support layer. For example, the plurality of electrodes may be printed on the proximal side of the support layer. The plurality of electrodes may face the first adhesive layer. The plurality of electrodes may contact the first adhesive layer.The first part of the electrode assembly may have a primary side. The first part of the electrode assembly may have a secondary side. The primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly may be a proximal side of the first part of the electrode assembly. The secondary side of the first part of the electrode assembly may be a distal side of the first part of the electrode assembly. The primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly may initially be a proximal side of the first part of the electrode assembly. The secondary side of the first part of the electrode assembly may initially be a distal side of the first part of the electrode assembly. The first part of the electrode assembly may be turned over, e.g. to expose the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes on a distal side of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. For example, the first part may be bend, e.g. between 170-190 degrees, such as 180 degrees, e.g. for the primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly to face distally. Thus, the primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly may, at least partly, be facing distally. For example, the first part may include a first portion arranged on a distal side of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, such as distal with respect to the top layer, and a second portion that extends from the second part around an edge of the top layer to the first portion.The monitor interface may comprise a coupling part configured for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling, between the monitor device and the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. For example, the coupling part may be a rigid coupling part. The coupling part may allow for an electrical connection between the monitor device being coupled to the coupling part and the plurality of electrodes of the electrode assembly, such as through the plurality of terminals of the monitor interface and the monitor device.The coupling part may be attached to the top layer, such as a distal side of the top layer. Alternatively or additionally, the coupling part may be attached to the electrode assembly, such as to a distal side of the electrode assembly, such as to a distal side of the support layer of the electrode assembly. The coupling part may be attached to the top layer and/or the electrode assembly by gluing or welding.The coupling part may be aligned with the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes. For example, the coupling part may be positioned to cover the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes. Alternatively or additionally, the connection part of the plurality of electrodes may be positioned within a terminal interface region defined by the coupling part. The terminal interface region may be a region wherein terminals, e.g. of the base plate and/or sensor assembly part, may connect, such as mechanically and/or electrically connect, with respective terminals of a monitor device. The terminal interface region need not be a structurally delimited and/or visible region. The terminal interface region may be a region adjacent to the coupling part. Alternatively or additionally, The terminal interface region may be surrounded by the coupling part, such as a region surrounded by the coupling part. The terminal interface region may be within a 20 mm radius of the coupling part, such as within a 10 mm radius of the coupling part, such as within a 5 mm radius of the coupling part, such as within a 1 mm radius of the coupling part. The coupling part may surround the terminal interface region. The coupling part may have one or more outer sides including a first outer side. The terminal interface region may be adjacent an outer side of the coupling part, such as the first outer side.The electrode assembly may comprise a reinforcement element. The reinforcement element may be forming at least part of the first part of the electrode assembly. The reinforcement element may provide and/or strengthen the first part of the electrode assembly, e.g. to better account for direct contact between the terminals of the monitor device and the attachment parts of the plurality of electrodes. Furthermore, the reinforcement element may facilitate bending of the first part of the electrode assembly, such as to turn the primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly to face distally.The reinforcement element may comprise a plurality of conductive paths. The plurality of conductive paths may be connected to the plurality of electrodes, e.g. to form the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes. For example, the reinforcement element may be a flex circuit.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a second adhesive layer, such as the second adhesive layer as previously disclosed. The second adhesive layer may have a proximal side and/or a distal side. The proximal side of the second adhesive layer may be facing the distal side of the electrode assembly. The distal side of the second adhesive layer may be facing the coupling part. The second adhesive layer may be between the top layer and the electrode assembly. The method may comprise providing the second adhesive layer. The method may comprise positioning the second adhesive layer, e.g. with a proximal side facing the distal side of the electrode assembly. The second adhesive layer may be provided, such as formed, on the proximal side of the top layer, e.g. such that the distal side of the second adhesive layer is facing the proximal side of the top layer. The distal side of the second adhesive layer may be facing the proximal side of the top layer. The second adhesive layer may be provided on the top layer by scraping a thin layer of a second composition, such as a second adhesive composition, onto the top layer, such as on the proximal side of the top layer, to form the second adhesive layer.The second adhesive layer may extend over a larger area in the base plate plane and/or the sensor assembly part plane than the first adhesive layer. For example, the second adhesive layer may extend over a second area in the base plate plane and/or the sensor assembly part plane, e.g. being larger than the first area and/or covering the first area, where the first adhesive layer extends over the first area.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may be cut from assembled layers, e.g. comprising the top layer, the electrode assembly, the first adhesive layer and/or the second adhesive layer. The method may comprise cutting out, such as stamping out, the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part from the assembled top layer, electrode assembly, first adhesive layer and/or second adhesive layer. The cutting out may provide a contour of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The cutting out may be provided before turning over the first part of the electrode assembly. The first part of the electrode assembly may have two substantially parallel sides, e.g. in the base plate plane. The base plate may be cut from the assembled layers to provide the first part of the electrode assembly with substantially parallel sides.The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a stomal opening with a center point. For example, the top layer, the second adhesive, the electrode assembly, the first adhesive and/or the release liner may comprise a stomal opening with a center point, e.g. collectively forming the stomal opening with the center point of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.A horizontal axis in the base plate plane and/or the sensor assembly plane may cross the center point, e.g. of the stomal opening. The horizontal axis may be orientated substantially horizontal, e.g. parallel with the ground, when the base plate is worn as intended. An upper half of the base plate may be defined as the part of the base plate in the base plate plane above the horizontal axis when the base plate is worn as intended. A lower half of the base plate may be defined as the part of the base plate in the base plate plane below the horizontal axis when the base plate is worn as intended.The coupling part and/or the first part of the electrode assembly may be positioned on the upper half of the base plate and/or sensor assembly part. The coupling part and/or the first part of the electrode assembly may be positioned on the upper half of the base plate and/or sensor assembly part within an angular space from the horizontal axis, e.g. with respect to the center point of the base plate, from 45-135 degrees, such as from 45-90 degrees, or from 90-135 degrees. Such positioning of the coupling part and/or the first part of the electrode assembly may provide that a device, such as the monitor device, may be coupled to the coupling part and/or the first part of the electrode assembly with little or no interference with the ostomy bag. Furthermore, it may ease attachment of the device to the base plate.FIG.1illustrates an exemplary ostomy system. Theostomy system1comprises anostomy appliance2including abase plate4. Thebase plate4is adapted to support an ostomy pouch (not shown). Further, theostomy system1comprises amonitor device6and an accessory device8(mobile telephone). Themonitor device6is connectable to thebase plate4via respective first connectors of themonitor device6andbase plate4. Themonitor device6is configured for wireless communication with the accessory device8. Optionally, the accessory device8is configured to communicate with aserver device10of theostomy system1, e.g. vianetwork12. Theserver device10may be operated and/or controlled by the ostomy appliance manufacturer and/or a service centre. Ostomy data or parameter data based on the ostomy data are obtained from electrodes/sensors of theostomy appliance2with themonitor device6. Themonitor device6processes the ostomy data and/or parameter data based on the ostomy data to determine monitor data that are transmitted to the accessory device8. In the illustrated ostomy system, the accessory device8is a mobile phone, however the accessory device8may be embodied as another handheld device, such as a tablet device, or a wearable, such as a watch or other wrist-worn electronic device. Accordingly, themonitor device6is configured to determine and transmit monitor data to the accessory device8. Thebase plate4comprises a coupling member14in the form of a coupling ring16for coupling an ostomy pouch (not shown) to the base plate (two-part ostomy appliance). The base plate has a stoma-receivingopening18with a stoma center point. The size and/or shape of thestomal opening18is typically adjusted by the user or nurse before application of the ostomy appliance to accommodate the user's stoma.Theostomy system1optionally comprises adocking station20forming an accessory device of theostomy system1. Thedocking station20comprises a docking monitor interface including afirst connector22configured for electrically and/or mechanically connecting themonitor device6to thedocking station20. The docking monitor interface may be configured for wirelessly connecting the monitor device to the docking station. Thedocking station20comprises auser interface24for receiving user input and/or providing feedback to the user on the operational state of thedocking station20. Theuser interface24may comprise a touch-screen. Theuser interface24may comprise one or more physical buttons and/or one or more visual indicators, such as light emitting diodes,FIG.2is a schematic block diagram of an exemplary monitor device. Themonitor device6comprises amonitor device housing100, aprocessor101and one or more interfaces, the one or more interfaces including a first interface102(appliance interface) and a second interface104(accessory interface). Themonitor device6comprises amemory106for storing ostomy data and/or parameter data based on the ostomy data. Thememory106is connected to theprocessor101and/or thefirst interface102.Thefirst interface102is configured as an appliance interface for electrically and/or mechanically connecting themonitor device6to the ostomy appliance,e.g. ostomy appliance2. Thefirst interface102comprises a plurality of terminals for forming electrical connections with respective terminals of the ostomy appliance2(base plate4). Thefirst interface102comprises aground terminal108, afirst terminal110, asecond terminal112and athird terminal114. Thefirst interface102optionally comprises afourth terminal116and afifth terminal118. Thefirst interface102of themonitor device6comprises acoupling part120for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling between the monitor device and the base plate. Thecoupling part120and theterminals108,110,112,114,116, and118of thefirst interface102form (at least part of) a first connector of themonitor device6.Themonitor device6comprises apower unit121for powering the monitor device and active components thereof, i.e. thepower unit121is connected to theprocessor101, thefirst interface102, thesecond interface104, andmemory106. The power unit comprises a battery and charging circuitry. The charging circuitry is connected to the battery and terminals of thefirst interface102for charging the battery via terminals of the first interface, e.g. terminals of the first connector.Thesecond interface104of monitor device is configured as an accessory interface for connecting themonitor device6to one or more accessory devices such as accessory device8. Thesecond interface104comprises anantenna122and awireless transceiver124configured for wireless communication with accessory device(s). Optionally, thesecond interface104comprises aloudspeaker126and/or ahaptic feedback element128for provision of respective audio signal and/or haptic feedback to the user.Themonitor device6comprises asensor unit140connected to theprocessor101. Thesensor unit140comprises a temperature sensor for feeding temperature data to the processor and a G-sensor or accelerometer for feeding acceleration data to theprocessor101.Theprocessor101is configured to apply a processing scheme, and thefirst interface102is configured for collecting ostomy data from the base plate coupled to the first interface, the ostomy data comprising first ostomy data from a first electrode pair of the base plate, second ostomy data from a second electrode pair of the base plate, and third ostomy data from a third electrode pair of the base plate. The ostomy data may be stored in thememory106and/or processed in theprocessor101in order to obtain parameter data.The parameter data may be stored in thememory106. Theprocessor101is configured to apply a processing scheme, wherein to apply a processing scheme comprises obtain first parameter data based on the first ostomy data; obtain second parameter data based on the second ostomy data; obtain third parameter data based on the third ostomy data. In other words, theprocessor101is configured to obtain first, second and third parameter data based on respective first, second and third ostomy data. To apply a processing scheme comprises to determine an operating state of the base plate of the ostomy appliance based on one or more, e.g. all, of the first parameter data, the second parameter data and the third parameter data, wherein the operating state is indicative of a degree of radial erosion of the base plate and/or acute leakage risk for the ostomy appliance. Themonitor device6is configured to, in accordance with a determination that the operating state is a first operating state, transmit a first monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the first operating state of the base plate via the second interface; and in accordance with a determination that the operating state is a second operating state, transmit a second monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the second operating state of the base plate via the second interface.FIG.3illustrates an exploded view of an exemplary base plate of an ostomy appliance. Thebase plate4comprises a firstadhesive layer200. During use, a proximal surface of the firstadhesive layer200adheres to the user's skin in the peristomal area and/or to additional seals, such as sealing paste, sealing tape and/or sealing ring. Thebase plate4optionally comprises a secondadhesive layer202, also denoted rim adhesive layer. Thebase plate4comprises a plurality of electrodes arranged in anelectrode assembly204. Theelectrode assembly204is arranged between the firstadhesive layer200and the secondadhesive layer202. Theelectrode assembly204comprises a support layer with electrodes formed on a proximal surface of the support layer. Thebase plate4comprises arelease liner206that is peeled off by the user prior to applying thebase plate4on the skin. Thebase plate4comprises atop layer208and acoupling ring209for coupling an ostomy pouch to thebase plate4. Thetop layer208is a protective layer protecting the secondadhesive layer202from external strains and stress during use.Thebase plate4comprises a monitor interface. The monitor interface is configured for electrically and/or mechanically connecting the ostomy appliance (base plate4) to the monitor device. The monitor interface of the base plate comprises acoupling part210for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling between the monitor device and the base plate. Thecoupling part210is configured to engage with a coupling part of the monitor device for releasably coupling the monitor device to thebase plate4. Further, the monitor interface of thebase plate4comprises a plurality of terminal elements respectively forming a plurality of terminals212for forming electrical connections with respective terminals of the monitor device. Thecoupling part210and the terminals212form a first connector211of thebase plate4. Thebase plate4comprises a first intermediate element213on the proximal side of the electrode assembly. The first intermediate element213is arranged between the terminal elements forming terminals212and the first adhesive layer (not shown). The first intermediate element213covers the terminal elements forming terminals212of thebase plate4when seen in the axial direction and protects the first adhesive layer from mechanical stress from the terminal elements of the base plate.As previously described, some parts of the illustratedbase plate4, may be provided as a separate assembly to be applied to an existing base plate, e.g. comprising one or more of the components as described, such as to provide a base plate like thebase plate4as described. For example, asensor assembly part700may be provided, e.g. comprising theelectrode assembly204, the first connector211, the first intermediate element213, the firstadhesive layer200and therelease liner206. Additionally, thesensor assembly part700may also comprise the secondadhesive layer202and/or thetop layer208. It may be envisioned that the user may provide a hole in layers of the base plate whereto thesensor assembly part700is to be applied, to allow for the first connector211of thesensor assembly part700to protrude through layers of the base plate whereto thesensor assembly part700is applied. Alternatively, thesensor assembly part700may be applied to the base plate such that the first connector211is positioned outside the periphery of the base plate.FIG.4illustrates an exploded view of anexemplary electrode assembly204of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part. Theelectrode assembly204has adistal side204A and aproximal side204B. The electrode assembly comprises asupport layer214withproximal surface214B andelectrodes216including a ground electrode, a first electrode, a second electrode, a third electrode, a fourth electrode, and a fifth electrode, wherein each electrode has arespective connection part217for connecting theelectrodes216to respective terminal elements of the monitor interface. Theelectrodes216are provided, such as formed, on aproximal side214B of thesupport layer214, e.g. theelectrodes216may be positioned on theproximal side214B of the support layer. Further,electrode assembly204comprises amasking element218withproximal surface218B and configured to insulate electrode parts ofelectrodes216from the first adhesive layer of the base plate and/or a sensor assembly part. The maskingelement218covers or overlap with parts of theelectrodes216when seen in the axial direction.FIG.5is a proximal view of proximal surfaces of base plate parts of thebase plate4and/or asensor assembly part700without the first adhesive layer and the release liner. Thebase plate4and/or asensor assembly part700comprises a first intermediate element213on the proximal side of the electrode assembly, i.e. between theelectrode assembly204and the first adhesive layer (not shown). The first intermediate element213covers the terminal elements of thebase plate4when seen in the axial direction and protects the first adhesive layer from mechanical stress from the terminal elements of the base plate and/or a sensor assembly part.FIG.6is a distal view of an exemplary electrode configuration220ofelectrodes216of theelectrode assembly204. Theelectrode assembly204, such as the electrode configuration220of theelectrode assembly204comprises aground electrode222, afirst electrode224, asecond electrode226, athird electrode228, afourth electrode230, and afifth electrode232. Theground electrode222comprises aground connection part222A and thefirst electrode224comprises afirst connection part224A. Thesecond electrode226comprises asecond connection part226A and thethird electrode228comprises athird connection part228A. Thefourth electrode230comprises afourth connection part230A and thefifth electrode232comprise afifth connection part232A.Thefourth electrode230comprisesfourth sensing parts230B. Thefifth electrode232comprisesfifth sensing parts232B.Theground electrode222comprises afirst electrode part234for forming a ground for thefirst electrode224. Theground electrode222comprises asecond electrode part236for forming a ground for thesecond electrode226. Theground electrode222comprises athird electrode part238for forming a ground for thethird electrode228. Theground electrode222comprises afourth electrode part240for forming a ground for thefourth electrode230and thefifth electrode232. Thefourth electrode part240of theground electrode222comprisesground sensing parts222BFIG.7is a distal view of an exemplary masking element. The maskingelement218optionally has a plurality of terminal openings including six terminal openings. The plurality of terminal openings comprises aground terminal opening242, a firstterminal opening244, a second terminal opening246, a thirdterminal opening248, a fourthterminal opening250, and a fifthterminal opening252. Theterminal openings242,244,246,248,250,252of themasking element218are configured to overlap and/or be aligned withrespective connection parts222A,224A,226A,228A,230A,232A of the electrodes of the electrode assembly.The maskingelement218has a plurality of sensor point openings. The sensor point openings comprise primary sensor point openings shown within dottedline254, each primary sensor point opening configured to overlap a part of theground electrode222and/or a part of thefourth electrode230. The primarysensor point openings254comprise, in the illustrated exemplary masking element, five primary firstsensor point openings254A each configured to overlap a part of theground electrode222. The primarysensor point openings254comprise, in the illustrated exemplary masking element, four primary secondsensor point openings254B each configured to overlap a part of thefourth electrode230. The sensor point openings comprise secondary sensor point openings shown within dottedline256, each second sensor point opening configured to overlap a part of thefourth electrode230and/or a part of thefifth electrode232. The secondarysensor point openings256comprise, in the illustrated exemplary masking element, five secondary firstsensor point openings256A each configured to overlap a part of thefifth electrode232. The secondarysensor point openings256comprise, in the illustrated exemplary masking element, four secondary secondsensor point openings256B each configured to overlap a part of thefourth electrode230. The sensor point openings comprise tertiary sensor point openings shown within dottedline258, each tertiary sensor opening configured to overlap a part of thefifth electrode232and/or a part of theground electrode222. The tertiarysensor point openings258comprise, in the illustrated exemplary masking element, five tertiary firstsensor point openings258A each configured to overlap a part of thefifth electrode232. The tertiarysensor point openings258comprise, in the illustrated exemplary masking element, four tertiary secondsensor point openings258B each configured to overlap a part of theground electrode222.FIG.8is a distal view of an exemplary first adhesive layer. The firstadhesive layer200has a plurality of sensor point openings. The sensor point openings of the first adhesive layer comprise primary sensor point openings shown within dottedline260, each primary sensor point opening configured to overlap a part of theground electrode222and/or a part of thefourth electrode230of the electrode assembly. The primarysensor point openings260comprise, in the illustrated exemplary first adhesive layer, five primary firstsensor point openings260A each configured to overlap a part of theground electrode222. The primarysensor point openings260comprise, in the illustrated exemplary first adhesive layer, four primary secondsensor point openings260B each configured to overlap a part of thefourth electrode230. The sensor point openings of the first adhesive layer comprise secondary sensor point openings shown within dottedline262, each second sensor point opening configured to overlap a part of thefourth electrode230and/or a part of thefifth electrode232of the electrode assembly. The secondarysensor point openings262comprise, in the illustrated exemplary first adhesive layer, five secondary firstsensor point openings262A each configured to overlap a part of thefifth electrode232. The secondarysensor point openings262comprise, in the illustrated exemplary first adhesive layer, four secondary secondsensor point openings262B each configured to overlap a part of thefourth electrode230. The sensor point openings of the first adhesive layer comprise tertiary sensor point openings shown within dottedline264, each tertiary sensor opening configured to overlap a part of thefifth electrode232and/or a part of theground electrode222of the electrode assembly. The tertiarysensor point openings264comprise, in the illustrated exemplary first adhesive layer, five tertiary firstsensor point openings264A each configured to overlap a part of thefifth electrode232. The tertiarysensor point openings264comprise, in the illustrated exemplary first adhesive layer, four tertiary secondsensor point openings264B each configured to overlap a part of theground electrode222.FIG.9is a proximal view of the first adhesive layer ofFIG.8.FIG.10is a more detailed distal view of a part of thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700. Thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700comprises a monitor interface207. The monitor interface207comprises the first connector211. The first connector211comprises couplingpart210configured to releasably couple the monitor device to thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700and thus forming a releasable coupling. The first connector211of the monitor interface207comprises a plurality of terminals formed by respective terminal elements for forming respective electrical connections with respective terminals of the monitor device.The plurality of terminals of the first connector211of the monitor interface207comprises a ground terminal element282forming a ground terminal282A, a first terminal element284forming a first terminal284, a second terminal element286forming a second terminal286A, and a third terminal element288forming a third terminal288A. The monitor interface207optionally comprises a fourth terminal element290forming a fourth terminal290A and/or a fifth terminal element292forming a fifth terminal290. The terminal elements282,284,286,288,290,292contactrespective connection parts222A,224A,226A,228A,230a,232A ofelectrodes222,224,226,228,230,232.FIG.11illustrates an exploded view of anexemplary base plate4of an ostomy appliance. Thebase plate4comprises a firstadhesive layer200. Thebase plate4optionally comprises a secondadhesive layer202, also denoted rim adhesive layer. Thebase plate4comprises a plurality ofelectrodes216arranged in anelectrode assembly204. Theelectrode assembly204is arranged between the firstadhesive layer200and the secondadhesive layer202. Theelectrode assembly204optionally comprises asupport layer214. The electrodes may be formed on a proximal side of thesupport layer214, such as by printing of conductive ink on the proximal side of thesupport layer214. Theelectrode assembly204optionally comprises amasking element218, e.g. covering or overlapping with parts of theelectrodes216when seen in the axial direction, e.g. from a proximal side of the electrodes. The electrode assembly has afirst part302comprisingconnection parts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216. The electrode assembly has asecond part303. Thesecond part303comprises sensing parts of the plurality ofelectrodes216. Thebase plate4comprises arelease liner206. Thebase plate4comprises atop layer208. Thebase plate4optionally comprises acoupling ring209for coupling an ostomy pouch to thebase plate4. Alternatively, e.g. for a one-part ostomy appliance, an ostomy pouch may be directly fastened to thebase plate4.Thebase plate4comprises a monitor interface configured for connecting, such as mechanically and/or electronically connecting, the base plate to a monitor device. The monitor interface comprises a plurality of terminals212configured to form electrical connections with respective terminals of the monitor device. For example, as illustrated, theconnection parts217may form the plurality of terminals212of the monitor interface. Alternatively, e.g. as shown inFIG.3, terminal elements may be provided to form the plurality of terminals.As illustrated by the dashed line, the layers are aligned such that the firstadhesive layer200is not covering a primary side, such as a distal side, of thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204.Therelease liner206comprises a firstelevated part314and a plurality of protrusions316. The firstadhesive layer200may be provided by scraping a layer of a first composition, such as a first adhesive composition, onto therelease liner206. The increased height of the protrusions316and elevated part(s)314minimizes the distance between the scraping apparatus and therelease liner206such that the first composition is not deposited in these areas. Thereby, the protrusions316accounts for the sensor point openings (e.g.sensor point openings260,262,264ofFIG.8) of the firstadhesive layer200, and the firstelevated part314accounts for thefirst part302, such as the primary side of thefirst part302, of the electrode assembly not being covered by the firstadhesive layer200.Furthermore, the firstadhesive layer200may typically show viscous properties, and therelease liner206having the protrusions316and the firstelevated part314provides that shape of the firstadhesive layer200, including the sensor point openings, is maintained while therelease liner206is maintained.Theoptional masking element218may be provided to insulate the plurality ofelectrodes216, or parts of the plurality ofelectrodes216. The maskingelement218has a plurality of terminal openings318to allow connection to the connectingparts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216, e.g. from a proximal side of theelectrode assembly204.As described in respect toFIG.3, some parts of the illustratedbase plate4, may be provided as a separate assembly to be applied to an existing base plate, e.g. comprising one or more of the components as described, such as to provide a base plate like thebase plate4as described. For example, asensor assembly part700may be provided, e.g. comprising theelectrode assembly204, the firstadhesive layer200and therelease liner206. Additionally, thesensor assembly part700may also comprise the secondadhesive layer202and/or thetop layer208. It may be envisioned that the user may provide a hole in layers of the base plate whereto thesensor assembly part700is to be applied, to allow for connection between the plurality ofelectrodes216of theelectrode assembly204and terminals of a monitor device being coupled to thebase plate4.FIG.12illustrates an exploded view of anexemplary electrode assembly204of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part, such as thebase plate4orsensor assembly part700ofFIG.11. Theelectrode assembly204has adistal side204A and aproximal side204B. The electrode assembly comprises asupport layer214with aproximal side214B and adistal side214A. Theelectrode assembly204comprises a plurality ofelectrodes216. Each electrode of the plurality ofelectrodes216has arespective connection part217for connecting theelectrodes216to respective terminal elements of the monitor interface. Theelectrodes216are provided, such as formed, on theproximal side214B of thesupport layer214, e.g. theelectrodes216may be positioned on theproximal side214B of thesupport layer214. Further,electrode assembly204optionally comprises amasking element218withproximal side218B and configured to insulate electrode parts ofelectrodes216from the firstadhesive layer200of thebase plate4and/or the sensor assembly part700(seeFIG.11). The maskingelement218covers or overlap with parts of theelectrodes216when seen in the axial direction, e.g. from theproximal side204B. The maskingelement218may be configured not to cover or overlap the connectingparts217of the plurality of electrodes.In someexemplary electrode assembly204, such as theelectrode assembly204ofFIG.12, theelectrode assembly204comprises areinforcement element308. Thereinforcement element308may be positioned proximal to theelectrode assembly216, such as proximal to the plurality ofelectrodes216, such as proximal to the plurality ofconnection parts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216. Thereinforcement element308may form at least part of a first part of theelectrode assembly204. Thereinforcement element308may be provided withopenings310to provide conductive pathways between sides of thereinforcement element308, such as between aproximal side308B and adistal side308A of thereinforcement element308.FIG.13shows an alternative toFIG.12, wherein thereinforcement element308comprises a plurality ofconductive paths311. For example, thereinforcement element308may be a flex circuit. The plurality ofconductive paths311may be connected to the plurality ofelectrodes216. The plurality ofconducive paths311thereby may form theconnection parts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216. The plurality ofconductive paths311may provide conductive pathways between theproximal side308B and thedistal side308A of thereinforcement element308.FIG.14shows an exemplary electrode configuration220of the plurality ofelectrodes216, like the electrode configuration220as shown inFIG.6, with the difference that theconnection parts217, such as theground connection part222A, thefirst connection part224A, thesecond connection part226A, thethird connection part228A, thefourth connection part230A and/or thefifth connection part232A, are straight connector parts.FIG.15, shows a sectional schematic representation of part of abase plate4and/or asensor assembly part700. Thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700comprises a firstadhesive layer200, an optional secondadhesive layer202, and atop layer208. Anelectrode assembly204comprising a plurality ofelectrodes216is arranged between the firstadhesive layer200and thetop layer208, such as between the firstadhesive layer200and the secondadhesive layer202. For example, a second part of theelectrode assembly204is arranged between the firstadhesive layer200and the secondadhesive layer202and/or thetop layer208. Theelectrode assembly204further comprises anoptional reinforcement element308and anoptional release liner206.The firstadhesive layer200is provided such that it does not cover a primary side of afirst part302of theelectrode assembly204. For example, therelease liner206comprises a firstelevated part314such as to facilitate the formation of the firstadhesive layer202to not cover the primary side of thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204. The primary side of thefirst part302may be a proximal side of thefirst part302. Thefirst part302includes the connection parts of the plurality ofelectrodes216and thereinforcement element308or part of thereinforcement element308. Thefirst part302may include part of thesupport layer214.FIG.16, shows a sectional schematic representation of part of abase plate4and/or asensor assembly part700as shown inFIG.15, further illustrating that theconnection parts217may be accessible, e.g. by slightly bending thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204in a distal direction. Alternatively, therelease liner206may be removed so thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204is accessible from a proximal side.Because the firstadhesive layer200is not covering thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204, thefirst part302is not adhered to the release liner or any other proximally positioned layers. Therefore, theconnection parts217may be accessible, e.g. for connection with a monitor device. Connection to theconnection parts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216may be provided through thereinforcement element308, or theconnection parts217may be formed by conductive paths of thereinforcement element308.FIG.17, shows a sectional schematic representation of part of abase plate4and/or asensor assembly part700. Thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700comprises a firstadhesive layer200, an optional secondadhesive layer202, and atop layer208. Anelectrode assembly204comprising a plurality ofelectrodes216is arranged between the firstadhesive layer200and thetop layer208, such as between the firstadhesive layer200and the secondadhesive layer202. For example, a second part of theelectrode assembly204is arranged between the first adhesive layer and the secondadhesive layer202/thetop layer208. Although not illustrated, theelectrode assembly204may comprise areinforcement element308, e.g. as illustrated inFIGS.15and16. Thus, thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700ofFIG.17may correspond to thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700, respectively, ofFIGS.15and16.Thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204, together with thetop layer208and the optional second adhesive layer, has been turned over to expose theconnection parts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216on a distal side of thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700. Thus, the primary side of thefirst part302initially being a proximal side (as shown inFIG.15) is, after thefirst part302has been turned, facing distally.FIG.18, shows a sectional schematic representation of part of abase plate4and/or asensor assembly part700as shown inFIG.17, wherein thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700comprises acoupling part210. Thecoupling part210is configured for forming a mechanical connection between the monitor device and thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700. Thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204is extending into thecoupling part210, e.g. to allow the monitor device, such as terminals of the monitor device to connect to theelectrodes216of thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700. Thecoupling part210is positioned to cover theconnection parts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216. Thecoupling part210may be attached to thetop layer208and/or thecoupling part210may be attached to theelectrode assembly204.FIG.19shows a flowchart of anexemplary method1000, such as a method for manufacturing a base plate or a sensor assembly part for an ostomy appliance. The method comprises providing1002a top layer, optionally providing1004a second adhesive layer, and providing1006an electrode assembly comprising a plurality of electrodes, the electrode assembly having a first part and a second part, the first part comprising connection parts of the plurality of electrodes. The method further comprises: providing1008a first adhesive layer, assembling1010the top layer, the optional second adhesive layer, the electrode assembly and the first adhesive layer. The first adhesive layer being provided1008such that a primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly is not covered by thefirst adhesive1008.Assembling1010the top layer, the optional second adhesive layer, the electrode assembly and the first adhesive layer includes assembling such that the electrode assembly is arranged between the first adhesive layer and the top layer and/or between the first adhesive layer and the optional second adhesive layer. For example, assembling1010the top layer, the optional second adhesive layer, the electrode assembly and the first adhesive layer includes assembling such that the second part of the electrode assembly, e.g. comprising sensing parts of the plurality of electrodes, is arranged between the first adhesive layer and the second adhesive layer/the top layer.Themethod1000furthermore optionally comprises providing1016a coupling part on the base plate or sensor assembly part. The coupling part may be provided1016to be aligned with the top layer opening and the optional second adhesive layer opening. The coupling part may be provided1016to be aligned with the first part of the electrode assembly.Themethod1000furthermore optionally comprises providing1018a release liner. The first adhesive layer may be provided1008on the release liner. For example, the first adhesive layer may be provided1008, such as formed, on the release liner by scraping of a first composition, such as a first adhesive composition. The release liner may comprise a first elevated part for forming an area not covered by the first adhesive layer. The first elevated part and consequently the area not covered by the first adhesive layer may be aligned with the first part of the electrode assembly, such that the first adhesive layer does not cover the first part of the electrode assembly.The position of the first connector on the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, the number of terminals and the position of the terminals in the coupling part may be adapted to the electrode configuration used in the electrode assembly of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.The use of the terms “first”, “second”, “third” and “fourth”, “primary”, “secondary”, “tertiary” etc. does not imply any particular order, but are included to identify individual elements. Moreover, the use of the terms “first”, “second”, “third” and “fourth”, “primary”, “secondary”, “tertiary” etc. does not denote any order or importance, but rather the terms “first”, “second”, “third” and “fourth”, “primary”, “secondary”, “tertiary” etc. are used to distinguish one element from another. Note that the words “first”, “second”, “third” and “fourth”, “primary”, “secondary”, “tertiary” etc. are used here and elsewhere for labelling purposes only and are not intended to denote any specific spatial or temporal ordering. Furthermore, the labelling of a first element does not imply the presence of a second element and vice versa.Although particular features have been shown and described, it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the claimed invention, and it will be made obvious to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed invention. The specification and drawings are, accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense. The claimed invention is intended to cover all alternatives, modifications and equivalents.Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure are set out in the following items:1. Method for manufacturing a base plate or a sensor assembly part for an ostomy appliance, the method comprising:providing a top layer;providing an electrode assembly comprising a plurality of electrodes, the electrode assembly having a first part and a second part, the first part comprising connection parts of the plurality of electrodes;providing a first adhesive layer; andassembling the top layer, the electrode assembly and the first adhesive layer, such that the second part of the electrode assembly is arranged between the first adhesive layer and the top layer,wherein the first adhesive layer is provided such that a primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly is not covered by the first adhesive.2. Method according toitem1 comprising providing a release liner, and wherein the first adhesive layer is provided on the release liner.3. Method according toitem2, wherein the release liner comprises a first elevated part and the first adhesive layer is provided on the release liner by scraping a first composition onto the release liner, the first elevated part providing an exempt area of the release liner whereon the first adhesive composition is not disposed, the exempt area being aligned with the first part of the electrode assembly.4. A base plate for an ostomy appliance, the base plate comprising:a top layer;a first adhesive layer; andan electrode assembly comprising a plurality of electrodes, the electrode assembly having a first part and a second part, the first part comprising connection parts of the plurality of electrodes, the second part being arranged between the first adhesive layer and the top layer;a monitor interface configured for connecting the base plate to a monitor device, the monitor interface comprising a plurality of terminals configured to form electrical connections with respective terminals of the monitor device,wherein the first adhesive layer is not covering a primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly.5. The base plate ofitem4, wherein the connection parts forms the plurality of terminals of the monitor interface.6. The base plate of any of items 4-5, wherein the plurality of electrodes is provided on a proximal side of the electrode assembly.7. The base plate ofitem6, wherein the first part of the electrode assembly is turned over to expose the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes on a distal side of the base plate.8. The base plate of any of items 4-7, wherein the monitor interface comprises a coupling part configured for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling, between the monitor device and the base plate.9. The base plate of item 8, wherein the coupling part is attached to the top layer, such as a distal side of the top layer.10. The base plate of item 9 as dependent on item 7, wherein the coupling part is positioned to cover the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes.11. The base plate of items 4-10, wherein the electrode assembly comprises a reinforcement element, and wherein the reinforcement element is forming at least part of the first part of the electrode assembly.12. The base plate of item 11, wherein the reinforcement element comprises a plurality of conductive paths connected to the plurality of electrodes to form the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes.13. The base plate of any ofitems11 or 12, wherein the reinforcement element is a flex circuit.14. The base plate of any of items 4-13 comprising a second adhesive layer between the top layer and the electrode assembly.15. A base plate for an ostomy appliance obtainable by the method according to any of items 1-3.16. A sensor assembly part for an ostomy appliance, the sensor assembly part comprising:a top layer;a first adhesive layer; andan electrode assembly comprising a plurality of electrodes, the electrode assembly having a first part and a second part, the first part comprising connection parts of the plurality of electrodes, the second part being arranged between the first adhesive layer and the top layer;a monitor interface configured for connecting the sensor assembly part to a monitor device, the monitor interface comprising a plurality of terminals configured to form electrical connections with respective terminals of the monitor device,wherein the first adhesive layer is not covering a primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly.17. The sensor assembly part of item 16, wherein the connection parts forms the plurality of terminals of the monitor interface.18. The sensor assembly part of any of items 16-17, wherein the plurality of electrodes is provided on a proximal side of the electrode assembly.19. The sensor assembly part ofitem18, wherein the first part of the electrode assembly is turned over to expose the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes on a distal side of the sensor assembly part.20. The sensor assembly part of any of items 16-19, wherein the monitor interface comprises a coupling part configured for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling, between the monitor device and the sensor assembly part.21. The sensor assembly part ofitem20, wherein the coupling part is attached to the top layer, such as a distal side of the top layer.22. The sensor assembly part of item 21 as dependent on item 7, wherein the coupling part is positioned to cover the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes.23. The sensor assembly part of items 16-22, wherein the electrode assembly comprises a reinforcement element, and wherein the reinforcement element is forming at least part of the first part of the electrode assembly.24. The sensor assembly part of item 23, wherein the reinforcement element comprises a plurality of conductive paths connected to the plurality of electrodes to form the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes.25. The sensor assembly part of any ofitems23 or 24, wherein the reinforcement element is a flex circuit.26. The sensor assembly part of any of items 16-25 comprising a second adhesive layer between the top layer and the electrode assembly.27. A sensor assembly part for an ostomy appliance obtainable by the method according to any of items 1-3.LIST OF REFERENCES1ostomy system2ostomy appliance4base plate6monitor device8accessory device10server device12network14coupling member16coupling ring18stoma-receiving opening100monitor device housing101processor102first interface104second interface106memory108ground terminal of monitor device110first terminal of monitor device112second terminal of monitor device114third terminal of monitor device116fourth terminal of monitor device118fifth terminal of monitor device120coupling part122antenna124wireless transceiver126loudspeaker128haptic feedback element200first adhesive layer200A distal side/surface of first adhesive layer200B proximal side/surface of first adhesive layer202second adhesive layer202A distal side/surface of second adhesive layer202B proximal side/surface of second adhesive layer204electrode assembly204A distal side/surface of electrode assembly204B proximal side/surface of electrode assembly206release liner206A distal side/surface of the release liner206B proximal side/surface of the release liner208top layer208A distal side/surface of the top layer208B proximal side/surface of the top layer209coupling ring210coupling part of first connector211first connector212terminals of first connector213first intermediate element213A distal side/surface of first intermediate element213B proximal side/surface of first intermediate element214support layer of electrode assembly214A distal side/surface of support layer214B proximal side/surface of support layer216electrodes of electrode assembly217connection parts218masking element218A distal side/surface of masking element218B proximal side/surface of masking element220electrode configuration222ground electrode222A ground connection part222B ground sensing part224first electrode224A first connection part226second electrode226A second connection part228third electrode228A third connection part230fourth electrode230A fourth connection part230B fourth sensing part232fifth electrode232A fifth connection part232B fifth sensing part234first electrode part of the ground electrode236second electrode part of the ground electrode238third electrode part of the ground electrode240fourth electrode part of the ground electrode242ground terminal opening244first terminal opening246second terminal opening248third terminal opening250fourth terminal opening252fifth terminal opening254primary sensor point openings of masking element254A primary first sensor point opening254B primary second sensor point opening256secondary sensor point openings of masking element256A secondary first sensor point opening256B secondary second sensor point opening258tertiary sensor point openings of masking element258A tertiary first sensor point opening258B tertiary second sensor point opening260primary sensor point openings of first adhesive layer260A primary first sensor point opening260B primary second sensor point opening262secondary sensor point openings of first adhesive layer262A secondary first sensor point opening262B secondary second sensor point opening264tertiary sensor point openings of first adhesive layer264A tertiary first sensor point opening264B tertiary second sensor point opening270terminal interface region272terminal element(s)272A distal end of terminal element(s)272B proximal end of terminal element(s)274A distal part of terminal element(s)274B proximal part of terminal element(s)276A distal terminal element bend276B proximal terminal element bend278guide hole282ground terminal element282A ground terminal284first terminal element284A first terminal286second terminal element286A second terminal288third terminal element288A third terminal290fourth terminal element290A fourth terminal292fifth terminal element292A fifth terminal302first part of electrode assembly303second part of electrode assembly308reinforcement element308A distal side of reinforcement element308B proximal side of reinforcement element310openings311conductive paths314first elevated part700sensor assembly part1000method1002providing top layer1004providing second adhesive layer1006providing electrode assembly1008providing first adhesive layer1010assembling layers1016providing coupling part1018providing release linerM number of terminals in the first interface of the monitor device

The present disclosure relates to an ostomy system, devices thereof, method of manufacturing and method for monitoring an ostomy appliance. The ostomy appliance system comprises an ostomy appliance and an ostomy monitor device. In particular, the present disclosure relates to leakage classification and/or detection and monitoring of the operation of an ostomy appliance.

The accompanying drawings are included to provide a further understanding of embodiments and are incorporated into and a part of this specification. The drawings illustrate embodiments and together with the description serve to explain principles of embodiments. Other embodiments and many of the intended advantages of embodiments will be readily appreciated as they become better understood by reference to the following detailed description. The elements of the drawings are not necessarily to scale relative to each other. Like reference numerals designate corresponding similar parts.

FIG.1illustrates an exemplary ostomy system,

FIG.2illustrates an exemplary monitor device of the ostomy system,

FIG.3is an exploded view of a base plate of an ostomy appliance,

FIG.4is an exploded view of an exemplary electrode assembly,

FIG.5is a proximal view of parts of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part,

FIG.6is a distal view of an exemplary electrode configuration,

FIG.7is a distal view of an exemplary masking element,

FIG.8is a distal view of an exemplary first adhesive layer,

FIG.9is a proximal view of the first adhesive layer ofFIG.8,

FIG.10is a distal view of a part of the base plate and/or a sensor assembly part including a monitor interface,

FIG.11illustrates an exploded view of an exemplary base plate,

FIG.12illustrates an exploded view of an exemplary electrode assembly,

FIG.13illustrates an exploded view of an exemplary electrode assembly,

FIG.14shows an exemplary electrode configuration,

FIG.15shows a schematic representation of part of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part,

FIG.16shows a schematic representation of part of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part,

FIG.17shows a schematic representation of part of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part,

FIG.18shows a schematic representation of part of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part, and

FIG.19shows a flowchart of an exemplary method.

Various exemplary embodiments and details are described hereinafter, with reference to the figures when relevant. It should be noted that the figures may or may not be drawn to scale and that elements of similar structures or functions are represented by like reference numerals throughout the figures. It should also be noted that the figures are only intended to facilitate the description of the embodiments. They are not intended as an exhaustive description of the invention or as a limitation on the scope of the invention. In addition, an illustrated embodiment needs not have all the aspects or advantages shown. An aspect or an advantage described in conjunction with a particular embodiment is not necessarily limited to that embodiment and can be practiced in any other embodiments even if not so illustrated, or if not so explicitly described.

Throughout this disclosure, the words “stoma” and “ostomy” are used to denote a surgically created opening bypassing the intestines or urinary tract system of a person. The words are used interchangeably, and no differentiated meaning is intended. The same applies for any words or phrases derived from these, e.g. “stomal”, “ostomies” etc. Also, the solid and liquid wastes emanating from the stoma may be referred to as both stomal “output,” “waste(s),” and “fluids” interchangeably. A subject having undergone ostomy surgery may be referred to as “ostomist” or “ostomate”—moreover, also as “patient” or “user”. However, in some cases “user” may also relate or refer to a health care professional (HCP), such as a surgeon or an ostomy care nurse or others. In those cases, it will either be explicitly stated, or be implicit from the context that the “user” is not the “patient” him- or herself.

In the following, whenever referring to proximal side or surface of a layer, an element, a device or part of a device, the referral is to the skin-facing side or surface, when a user wears the ostomy appliance. Likewise, whenever referring to the distal side or surface of a layer, an element, a device or part of a device, the referral is to the side or surface facing away from the skin, when a user wears the ostomy appliance. In other words, the proximal side or surface is the side or surface closest to the user, when the appliance is fitted on a user and the distal side is the opposite side or surface—the side or surface furthest away from the user in use.

The axial direction is defined as the direction of the stoma, when a user wears the appliance. Thus, the axial direction is generally perpendicular to the skin or abdominal surface of the user.

The radial direction is defined as perpendicular to the axial direction. In some sentences, the words “inner” and “outer” may be used. These qualifiers should generally be perceived with respect to the radial direction, such that a reference to an “outer” element means that the element is farther away from a centre portion of the ostomy appliance than an element referenced as “inner”. In addition, “innermost” should be interpreted as the portion of a component forming a centre of the component and/or being adjacent to the centre of the component. In analogy, “outermost” should be interpreted as a portion of a component forming an outer edge or outer contour of a component and/or being adjacent to that outer edge or outer contour.

The use of the word “substantially” as a qualifier to certain features or effects in this disclosure is intended to simply mean that any deviations are within tolerances that would normally be expected by the skilled person in the relevant field.

The use of the word “generally” as a qualifier to certain features or effects in this disclosure is intended to simply mean—for a structural feature: that a majority or major portion of such feature exhibits the characteristic in question, and—for a functional feature or an effect: that a majority of outcomes involving the characteristic provide the effect, but that exceptionally outcomes do no provide the effect.

The present disclosure relates to an ostomy system and devices thereof, such as an ostomy appliance, a base plate for an ostomy appliance, a monitor device, and optionally one or more accessory devices. Further, methods related to the ostomy system and devices thereof are disclosed. An accessory device (also referred to as an external device) may be a mobile phone or other handheld device. An accessory device may be a personal electronic device, e.g. a wearable, such as a watch or other wrist-worn electronic device. An accessory device may be a docking station. The docking station may be configured to electrically and/or mechanically couple the monitor device to the docking station. The docking station may be configured for charging the monitor device and/or configured for transferring data between the monitor device and the docking station. The ostomy system may comprise a server device. The server device may be operated and/or controlled by the ostomy appliance manufacturer and/or a service centre.

The present disclosure provides an ostomy system and devices thereof, such as an ostomy appliance, a base plate for an ostomy appliance, a monitor device, and optionally one or more accessory devices which either alone or together facilitate reliable determination of the nature, severity and rapidness of moisture propagation in the adhesive material provided for attaching the base plate to the skin surface of a user. Depending on the nature of the pattern of moisture propagation in the adhesive, the ostomy system and devices thereof enable providing information to the user about the type of failure, and in turn enable providing an indication to the user of the severity and thus the remaining time frame for replacing the ostomy appliance without experiencing severe leakage and/or skin damage.

The ostomy appliance comprises a base plate and an ostomy pouch (also referred to as an ostomy bag). The ostomy appliance may be a colostomy appliance, an ileostomy appliance or a urostomy appliance. The ostomy appliance may be a two-part ostomy appliance, i.e. the base plate and the ostomy pouch may be releasably coupled e.g. with a mechanical and/or an adhesive coupling, e.g. to allow that a plurality of ostomy pouches can be utilized (exchanged) with one base plate. Further, a two-part ostomy appliance may facilitate correct application of the base plate to skin, e.g. to an improved user sight of the stomal region. The ostomy appliance may be a one-part ostomy appliance, i.e. the base plate and the ostomy pouch may be fixedly attached to each other. The base plate is configured for coupling to a user's stoma and/or skin surrounding the stoma, such as a peristomal skin area.

The ostomy appliance includes a base plate, such as a monolithic, one-piece base plate, e.g. integrated with a sensor assembly part, or a base plate and a separate sensor assembly part, such as a sensor assembly part to be subsequently applied to a base plate. For example, to allow an arbitrary base plate, such as a conventional base plate, to achieve the features as described herein. Features as described with respect to the base plate herein may be provided by a sensor assembly part to be applied to a base plate, e.g. by the user. A sensor assembly part may be adapted to adhere to an ostomy plate.

A disclosed method of attaching a base plate to a user's stoma and/or skin surrounding the stoma, such as the peristomal skin area, may comprise attaching a sensor assembly part to a base plate and attaching the base plate, e.g. together with the attached sensor assembly part, to the user's stoma and/or skin surrounding the stoma, such as the peristomal skin area. Alternatively, the method of attaching the base plate to the user's stoma and/or skin surrounding the stoma may comprise attaching the sensor assembly part to the user's stoma and/or skin surrounding the stoma and attaching the base plate to the user's stoma and/or skin surrounding the stoma above the attached sensor assembly part.

The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part comprises a first adhesive layer, also denoted center adhesive layer. During use, the first adhesive layer adheres to the user's skin (peristomal area) and/or to additional seals, such as sealing paste, sealing tape and/or sealing ring. Thus, the first adhesive layer may be configured for attachment of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part to the skin surface of a user. The first adhesive layer may have a stomal opening, such as a first adhesive stomal opening, with a center point.

The first adhesive layer may be made of a first composition. The first composition may comprise one or more polyisobutenes and/or styrene-isoprene-styrene. The first composition may comprise one or more hydrocolloids. The first composition may comprise one or more water soluble or water swellable hydrocolloids.

The first composition may be a pressure sensitive adhesive composition suitable for medical purposes comprising a rubbery elastomeric base and one or more water soluble or water swellable hydrocolloids. The first composition may comprise one or more polybutenes, one or more styrene copolymers, one or more hydrocolloids, or any combination thereof. The combination of the adhesive properties of the polybutenes and the absorbing properties of the hydrocolloids renders the first composition suitable for use in ostomy appliances. The styrene copolymer may for example be a styrene-butadiene-styrene block copolymer or a styrene-isoprene-styrene block copolymer. Preferably, one or more styrene-isoprene-styrene (SIS) block type copolymers are employed. The amount of styrene block-copolymer may be from 5% to 20% of the total adhesive composition. The butene component is suitably a conjugated butadiene polymer selected from polybutadiene, polyisoprene. The polybutenes are preferably present in an amount of from 35-50% of the total adhesive composition. Preferably, the polybutene is polyisobutylene (PIB). Suitable hydrocolloids for incorporation in the first composition are selected from naturally occurring hydrocolloids, semisynthetic hydrocolloids and synthetic hydrocolloids. The first composition may comprise 20-60% hydrocolloids. A preferred hydrocolloid is carboxymethylcellulose (CMC). The first composition may optionally contain other components, such as fillers, tackifiers, plasticizers, and other additives.

The first adhesive layer may have a plurality of sensor point openings. A sensor point opening of the first adhesive layer is optionally configured to overlap a part of an electrode, e.g. to form a sensor point.

The sensor point openings of the first adhesive layer may comprise primary sensor point openings. The primary sensor point openings may comprise one or more primary first sensor point openings and one or more primary second sensor point openings, the primary first sensor point openings configured to overlap parts of an electrode and the primary second sensor point openings configured to overlap parts of another electrode different from the electrode at least partly overlapped by the primary first sensor point openings.

The sensor point openings of the first adhesive layer may comprise secondary sensor point openings. The secondary sensor point openings may comprise one or more secondary first sensor point openings and one or more secondary second sensor point openings, the secondary first sensor point openings configured to overlap parts of an electrode and the secondary second sensor point openings configured to overlap parts of another electrode different from the electrode at least partly overlapped by the secondary first sensor point openings.

The sensor point openings of the first adhesive layer may comprise tertiary sensor point openings. The tertiary sensor point openings may comprise one or more tertiary first sensor point openings and one or more tertiary second sensor point openings, the tertiary first sensor point openings configured to overlap parts of an electrode and the tertiary second sensor point openings configured to overlap parts of another electrode different from the electrode at least partly overlapped by the tertiary first sensor point openings.

The first adhesive layer may have a substantially uniform thickness. The first adhesive layer may have a thickness in the range from 0.1 mm to 1.5 mm, e.g. in the range from 0.2 mm to 1.2 mm.

The first adhesive layer may have a primary thickness in a primary part of the first adhesive layer, e.g. in a primary region within a primary radial distance or in a primary radial distance range from the center point of the stomal opening. The primary thickness may be in the range from 0.2 mm to 1.5 mm. such as about 1.0 mm. The primary radial distance may be in the range from 20 mm to 50 mm, such as in the range from 25 mm to 35 mm, e.g. 30 mm.

The first adhesive layer may have a secondary thickness in a secondary part of the first adhesive layer, e.g. in a secondary region outside a secondary radial distance or in a secondary radial distance range from the center point of the stomal opening. The secondary thickness may be in the range from 0.2 mm to 1.0 mm, such as about 0.5 mm. The secondary radial distance may be in the range from 20 mm to 50 mm, such as in the range from 25 mm to 35 mm, e.g. 30 mm.

The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a second layer. The second layer may be a second adhesive layer, also denoted rim adhesive layer. The second layer may have a second radial extension that is larger than a first radial extension of the first adhesive layer at least in a first angular range of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. Accordingly, a part of a proximal surface of the second layer may be configured for attachment to the skin surface of a user. The part of a proximal surface of the second layer configured for attachment to the skin surface of a user is also denoted the skin attachment surface of the second adhesive layer. The second layer may have a stomal opening, such as a second layer stomal opening and/or a second adhesive stomal opening, with a center point.

The second adhesive layer may be made of a second composition. The second composition may comprise one or more polyisobutenes and/or styrene-isoprene-styrene. The second composition may comprise one or more hydrocolloids. The second composition may comprise one or more water soluble or water swellable hydrocolloids.

The second composition may be a pressure sensitive adhesive composition suitable for medical purposes comprising a rubbery elastomeric base and one or more water soluble or water swellable hydrocolloids. The second composition may comprise one or more polybutenes, one or more styrene copolymers, one or more hydrocolloids, or any combination thereof. The combination of the adhesive properties of the polybutenes and the absorbing properties of the hydrocolloids renders the second composition suitable for use in ostomy appliances. The styrene copolymer may for example be a styrene-butadiene-styrene block copolymer or a styrene-isoprene-styrene block copolymer. Preferably, one or more styrene-isoprene-styrene (SIS) block type copolymers are employed. The amount of styrene block-copolymer may be from 5% to 20% of the total adhesive composition. The butene component is suitably a conjugated butadiene polymer selected from polybutadiene, polyisoprene. The polybutenes are preferably present in an amount of from 35-50% of the total adhesive composition. Preferably, the polybutene is polyisobutylene (PIB). Suitable hydrocolloids for incorporation in the second composition are selected from naturally occurring hydrocolloids, semisynthetic hydrocolloids and synthetic hydrocolloids. The second composition may comprise 20-60% hydrocolloids. A preferred hydrocolloid is carboxymethylcellulose (CMC). The second composition may optionally contain other components, such as fillers, tackifiers, plasticizers, and other additives.

Different ratio of contents may change properties of the first and/or second adhesive layers. The second adhesive layer and the first adhesive layer may have different properties. The second adhesive layer (second composition) and the first adhesive layer (first composition) may have different ratios of polyisobutenes, styrene-isoprene-styrene, and/or hydrocolloids. For example, the second adhesive layer may provide a stronger attachment to the skin compared to attachment to the skin provided by the first adhesive layer. Alternatively or additionally, the second adhesive layer may be thinner than the first adhesive layer. Alternatively or additionally, the second adhesive layer may be less water and/or sweat absorbing than the first adhesive layer. Alternatively or additionally, the second adhesive layer may be less mouldable than the first adhesive layer. The second adhesive layer may provide a second barrier against leakage.

The second layer may have a substantially uniform thickness. The second layer may have a thickness in the range from 0.1 mm to 1.5 mm, e.g. in the range from 0.2 mm to 1.0 mm, such as 0.5 mm, 0.6 mm, or 0.7 mm.

The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise one or more electrodes, such as a plurality of electrodes, such as two, three, four, five, six, seven or more electrodes. The sensor assembly part may be applied to the base plate, such as to provide the base plate with the one or more electrodes.

The electrodes, e.g. some or all the electrodes, may be arranged between the first adhesive layer and the second adhesive layer. The electrodes may be arranged in an electrode assembly, e.g. an electrode layer. An electrode comprises a connection part for connecting the electrodes to other components and/or interface terminals. An electrode may comprise one or more conductor parts and/or one or more sensing parts. The electrode assembly may be arranged between the first adhesive layer and the second adhesive layer. The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, e.g. the electrode assembly, may comprise a first electrode, a second electrode and optionally a third electrode. The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, e.g. the electrode assembly, may comprise a fourth electrode and/or a fifth electrode. The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, e.g. the electrode assembly, optionally comprises a sixth electrode. The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, e.g. the electrode assembly, may comprise a ground electrode. The ground electrode may comprise a first electrode part. The first electrode part of the ground electrode may form a ground for the first electrode. The ground electrode may comprise a second electrode part. The second electrode part of the ground electrode may form a ground for the second electrode. The ground electrode may comprise a third electrode part. The third electrode part of the ground electrode may form a ground for the third electrode. The ground electrode may comprise a fourth electrode part. The fourth electrode part of the ground electrode may form a ground for the fourth electrode and/or the fifth electrode.

The ground electrode or electrode parts of the ground electrode may be configured as or form a (common) reference electrode for some or all of the other electrodes of the electrode assembly. The ground electrode may also be denoted reference electrode.

The electrodes are electrically conductive and may comprise one or more of metallic (e.g. silver, copper, gold, titanium, aluminium, stainless steel), ceramic (e.g. ITO), polymeric (e.g. PEDOT, PANI, PPy), and carbonaceous (e.g. carbon black, carbon nanotube, carbon fibre, graphene, graphite) materials.

Two electrodes of the electrode assembly may form a sensor. The first electrode and the ground electrode (e.g. first electrode part of the ground electrode) may form a first sensor or first electrode pair. The second electrode and the ground electrode (e.g. second electrode part of the ground electrode) may form a second sensor or second electrode pair. The third electrode and the ground electrode (e.g. third electrode part of the ground electrode) may form a third sensor or third electrode pair. The fourth electrode and the ground electrode (e.g. fourth electrode part of the ground electrode) may form a fourth sensor or fourth electrode pair. The fifth electrode and the ground electrode (e.g. fifth electrode part of the ground electrode) may form a fifth sensor or fifth electrode pair.

The first electrode may form an open loop. The second electrode may form an open loop and/or the third electrode may form an open loop. The fourth electrode may form an open loop. The fifth electrode may form an open loop. Open loop electrode(s) enables electrode arrangement in few or a single electrode layer.

The electrode assembly may comprise a support layer, also denoted a support film. One or more electrodes may be formed, e.g. printed, on the proximal side of the support layer. One or more electrodes may be formed, e.g. printed, on the distal side of the support layer. The electrode assembly, such as the support layer of the electrode assembly, may have a stomal opening, such as an electrode assembly stomal opening and/or a support layer stomal opening, with a center point.

The support layer may comprise polymeric (e.g. polyurethane, PTFE, PVDF) and/or ceramic (e.g. alumina, silica) materials. In one or more exemplary base plates and/or sensor assembly parts, the support layer is made of thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU). The support layer material may be made of or comprise one or more of polyester, a thermoplastic elastomer (TPE), polyimide, polyimide, Ethylene-vinyl acetate (EVA), polyurea, and silicones.

Exemplary thermoplastic elastomers of the support layer are styrenic block copolymers (TPS, TPE-s), thermoplastic polyolefinelastomers (TPO, TPE-o), thermoplastic Vulcanizates (TPV, TPE-v), thermoplastic polyurethanes (TPU), thermoplastic copolyester (TPC, TPE-E), and thermoplastic polyamides (TPA, TPE-A).

The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, such as the electrode assembly may comprise a masking element configured to insulate at least parts of the electrodes from the first adhesive layer of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The masking element may comprise one or more, such as a plurality of, sensor point openings. The sensor point openings may comprise primary sensor point openings and/or secondary sensor point openings. The sensor point openings may comprise tertiary sensor point opening(s). The sensor point openings may comprise quaternary sensor point opening(s) A sensor point opening of the masking element overlaps at least one electrode of the electrode assembly when seen in the axial direction, e.g. to form a sensor point. For example, a primary sensor point opening may overlap a part of the ground electrode and/or a part of the fourth electrode. A secondary sensor point opening may overlap a part of the fourth electrode and/or a part of the fifth electrode. A tertiary sensor point opening may overlap a part of the fifth electrode and/or a part of the ground electrode.

The masking element may comprise one or more, such as a plurality of, terminal openings. The masking element may comprise polymeric (e.g. polyurethane, PTFE, PVDF) and/or ceramic (e.g. alumina, silica) materials. In one or more exemplary base plates and/or sensor assembly parts, the masking element is made of or comprises thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU). In one or more exemplary base plates and/or sensor assembly parts, the masking element is made of or comprises polyester. The masking element material may be made of or comprise one or more of polyester, a thermoplastic elastomer (TPE), polyimide, polyimide, Ethylene-vinyl acetate (EVA), polyurea, and silicones.

Exemplary thermoplastic elastomers of the masking element are styrenic block copolymers (TPS, TPE-s), thermoplastic polyolefinelastomers (TPO, TPE-o), thermoplastic Vulcanizates (TPV, TPE-v), thermoplastic polyurethanes (TPU), thermoplastic copolyester (TPC, TPE-E), and thermoplastic polyamides (TPA, TPE-A).

The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a first intermediate element. The first intermediate element may be arranged between the electrodes/electrode layer and the first adhesive layer and/or between the second layer and the first adhesive layer. The first intermediate layer may be made of an insulating material.

The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a release liner. The release liner is a protective layer that protects adhesive layer(s) during transport and storage and is peeled off by the user prior to applying the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part on the skin. The release liner may have a stomal opening, such as a release liner stomal opening, with a center point.

The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a top layer. The top layer is a protective layer protecting the adhesive layer(s) from external strains and stress when the user wears the ostomy appliance. The electrodes, e.g. some or all the electrodes, may be arranged between the first adhesive layer and the top layer. The top layer may have a stomal opening, such as a top layer stomal opening, with a center point. The top layer may have a thickness in the range from 0.01 mm to 1.0 mm, e.g. in the range from 0.02 mm to 0.2 mm, such as 0.04 mm.

The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a monitor interface. The monitor interface may be configured for electrically and/or mechanically connecting the ostomy appliance (base plate and/or sensor assembly part) to the monitor device. The monitor interface may be configured for wirelessly connecting the ostomy appliance (base plate and/or sensor assembly part) to the monitor device. Thus, the monitor interface of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part is configured to electrically and/or mechanically couple the ostomy appliance and the monitor device.

The monitor interface of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise, e.g. as part of a first connector of the monitor interface, a coupling part for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling between the monitor device and the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The coupling part may be configured to engage with a coupling part of the monitor device for releasably coupling the monitor device to the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.

The monitor interface of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise, e.g. as part of a first connector of the monitor interface, a plurality of terminals, such as two, three, four, five, six, seven or more terminals, for forming electrical connections with respective terminals of the monitor device. The monitor interface may comprise a ground terminal element forming a ground terminal. The monitor interface may comprise a first terminal element forming a first terminal, a second terminal element forming a second terminal and optionally a third terminal element forming a third terminal. The monitor interface may comprise a fourth terminal element forming a fourth terminal and/or a fifth terminal element forming a fifth terminal. The monitor interface optionally comprises a sixth terminal element forming a sixth terminal. The terminal elements of the monitor interface may contact respective electrodes of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, such as the electrode assembly of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The first intermediate element may be arranged between the terminal elements and the first adhesive layer. The first intermediate element may cover or overlap terminal element(s) of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part when seen in the axial direction. Thus, the first adhesive layer may be protected or experience more evenly distributed mechanical stress from the terminal elements of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, in turn reducing the risk of terminal elements penetrating or otherwise damaging the first adhesive layer. The first intermediate element may protect or mechanically and/or electrically shield the first adhesive layer from the terminal elements of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.

A terminal element, such as the ground terminal element, the first terminal element, the second terminal element, the third terminal element, the fourth terminal element, the fifth terminal element and/or the sixth terminal element, may comprise a distal end and a proximal end. A terminal element, such as the ground terminal element, the first terminal element, the second terminal element, the third terminal element, the fourth terminal element, the fifth terminal element and/or the sixth terminal element, may comprise a distal part, a centre part, and/or a proximal part. The distal part may be between the distal end and the centre part. The proximal part may be between the proximal end and the centre part. A terminal element, such as the ground terminal element, the first terminal element, the second terminal element, the third terminal element, the fourth terminal element, the fifth terminal element and/or the sixth terminal element, may be gold plated copper.

The base plate may comprise a coupling ring or other coupling member for coupling an ostomy pouch to the base plate (two-part ostomy appliance). The center point may be defined as a center of the coupling ring.

The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may have a stomal opening, e.g. with a center point. The stomal opening of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may be formed collectively of stomal opening(s) of the layers of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, such as of the top layer, the first adhesive layer, the second layer and/or the sensor assembly part. The stomal opening(s) of the layers of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, such as of the top layer, the first adhesive layer, the second layer and/or the sensor assembly part may be aligned to form the stomal opening of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The stomal opening may be a through-going passage of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The stomal opening may be arranged substantially in the center of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The stomal opening(s) of the layers of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may be arranged substantially in the center of the respective layer. The stomal opening may be configured to receive a stoma of the user and/or the stomal opening may be configured to allow output from the stoma to pass through the stomal opening an into an ostomy pouch attached to the base plate. For example, the stomal opening may be configured to allow passage of output from a proximal side of the base plate and/or sensor assembly part to a distal side of the base plate and/or sensor assembly part. The size and/or shape of the stomal opening may typically be adjusted by the user or nurse before application of the ostomy appliance to accommodate the user's stoma. In one or more exemplary base plates or sensor assembly parts, the user forms the stomal opening during preparation of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part for application.

The monitor device comprises a processor and one or more interfaces, such as a first interface and/or a second interface. The monitor device may comprise a memory for storing ostomy data.

In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the processor is configured to apply a processing scheme, the first interface is connected to the processor and the memory, and the first interface is configured for collecting ostomy data from the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part coupled to the first interface. The ostomy data may comprise one or more, such as all, of first ostomy data from a first electrode pair of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, second ostomy data from a second electrode pair of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, and third ostomy data from a third electrode pair of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. A second interface is connected to the processor. To apply a processing scheme may comprise one or more of obtain first parameter data based on the first ostomy data; obtain second parameter data based on the second ostomy data; and obtain third parameter data based on the third ostomy data. To apply a processing scheme may comprise determine an operating state of the base plate of the ostomy appliance based on one or more, such as all, of the first parameter data, the second parameter data and the third parameter data. The operating state may be indicative of a degree of radial erosion of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, such as of the first adhesive layer, and/or an acute leakage risk for the ostomy appliance. The monitor device is configured to, in accordance with a determination that the operating state is a first operating state, transmit a first monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the first operating state of the base plate via the second interface; and/or in accordance with a determination that the operating state is a second operating state, transmit a second monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the second operating state of the base plate via the second interface.

In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the first operating state of the base plate corresponds to a situation wherein the first adhesive layer of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part has experienced a first degree of radial erosion, e.g. the first adhesive layer is eroded to a first radial distance of the first electrode pair but not to a second radial distance of the second electrode pair.

In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the second operating state of the base plate corresponds to a situation wherein the first adhesive layer of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part has experienced a second degree of radial erosion, e.g. the first adhesive layer is eroded to the second radial distance of the second electrode pair but not to a third radial distance of the third electrode pair.

To obtain first parameter data based on the first ostomy data may comprise determining one or more first parameters based on the first ostomy data. To obtain second parameter data based on the second ostomy data may comprise determining one or more second parameters based on the second ostomy data. To obtain third parameter data based on the third ostomy data may comprise determining one or more third parameters based on the third ostomy data. In one or more exemplary monitor devices, determination of an operating state may be based on one or more first parameters, such as first primary parameter and/or first secondary parameter of first parameter data. In one or more exemplary monitor devices, determination of an operating state may be based on one or more second parameters, such as second primary parameter and/or second secondary parameter of the second parameter data. In one or more exemplary monitor devices, determination of an operating state may be based on one or more third parameters, such as third primary parameter and/or third secondary parameter of the third parameter data. In one or more exemplary monitor devices, determination of an operating state may be based on one or more fourth parameters, such as fourth primary parameter and/or fourth secondary parameter of the fourth parameter data.

The first parameter data, the second parameter data, and the third parameter data may be indicative of resistance between the first electrode pair, the second electrode pair, and the third electrode pair, respectively.

The first parameter data, the second parameter data, and the third parameter data may be indicative of a rate of change in resistance between the first electrode pair, the second electrode pair, and the third electrode pair, respectively.

In one or more exemplary monitor devices, to determine an operating state of the base plate is based on a first criteria set based on the first parameter data and/or the second parameter data, wherein the operating state is determined to be the first operating state if the first criteria set is satisfied. The first criteria set may comprise one or more first criteria based on one or more of first parameter data, second parameter data and third parameter data. The first criteria set may comprise a first primary criterion based on the first parameter data. The first criteria set may comprise a first secondary criterion based on the second parameter data. The first criteria set may comprise a first tertiary criterion based on the third parameter data.

In one or more exemplary monitor devices, to determine an operating state of the base plate may be based on a first threshold set comprising one or a plurality of first threshold values. The first threshold set may comprise one or a plurality of threshold values, e.g. to be applied in the first criteria set. The first threshold set may comprise a first primary threshold value. The first threshold set may comprise a first secondary threshold value. The first threshold set may comprise a first tertiary threshold value.

The first criteria set may be given by(P_1_1<TH_1_1),(P_2_1>TH_1_2), and(P_3_1>TH_1_3),wherein P_1_1 is a first primary parameter based on the first parameter data, TH_1_1 is a first primary threshold value, P_2_1 is a second primary parameter based on the second parameter data, TH_1_2 is a first secondary threshold value, P_3_1 is a third primary parameter based on the third parameter data, and TH_1_3 is a first tertiary threshold value, and wherein the first operating state is indicative of low degree of radial erosion on the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The first threshold values (TH_1_1, TH_1_2 and TH_1_3) may be the same or different, e.g. depending on the electrode configuration of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The first tertiary criterion (P_3_1<TH1_3) may be omitted in the first criteria set.

The first primary parameter P_1_1 may be indicative of the resistance between the first electrode pair (first electrode and first electrode part of the ground electrode) of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.

The second primary parameter may be indicative of the resistance between the second electrode pair (second electrode and second electrode part of the ground electrode) of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.

The third primary parameter may be indicative of resistance between the third electrode pair (third electrode and third electrode part of the ground electrode) of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.

In one or more exemplary monitor devices, to determine an operating state of the base plate is based on a second criteria set based on the second parameter data and/or the third parameter data, wherein the operating state is determined to be the second operating state if the second criteria set is satisfied. The second criteria set may be based on the first parameter data.

The second criteria set may comprise one or more second criteria based on one or more of first parameter data, second parameter data and third parameter data. The second criteria set may comprise a second primary criterion based on the first parameter data. The second criteria set may comprise a second secondary criterion based on the second parameter data. The second criteria set may comprise a second tertiary criterion based on the third parameter data.

In one or more exemplary monitor devices, to determine an operating state of the base plate is based on a second threshold set comprising one or a plurality of second threshold values. The second threshold set may comprise one or a plurality of threshold values, e.g. to be applied in the second criteria set. The second threshold set may comprise a second primary threshold value. The second threshold set may comprise a second secondary threshold value. The second threshold set may comprise a second tertiary threshold value.

The second criteria set may be given by(P_1_1<TH_2_1),(P_2_1<TH_2_2), and(P_3_1>TH_2_3)wherein P_1_1 is a first primary parameter based on the first parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the first electrode pair, TH_2_1 is a second primary threshold value, P_2_1 is a second primary parameter based on the second parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the second electrode pair, TH_2_2 is a second secondary threshold value, P_3_1 is a third primary parameter based on the third parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the third electrode pair, TH_2_3 is a second tertiary threshold value, and wherein the second operating state is indicative of medium degree of radial erosion on the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The second threshold values (TH_2_1, TH_2_2 and TH_2_3) may be the same or different, e.g. depending on the electrode configuration of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The second primary criterion (P_1_1<TH_2_1) and/or the second tertiary criterion (P_3_1>TH_2_3) may be omitted in the second criteria set.

In one or more exemplary monitor devices, to determine an operating state of the base plate is based on a default criteria set based on the first parameter data, wherein the operating state is determined to be the default operating state if the default criteria set is satisfied, and in accordance with a determination that the operating state is the default operating state, transmit a default monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the default operating state of the ostomy appliance.

The default criteria set may be given by(P_1_1>TH_D_1),(P_2_1>TH_D_2), and(P_3_1>TH_D_3)wherein P_1_1 is a first primary parameter based on the first parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the first electrode pair, TH_D_1 is a default primary threshold value, P_2_1 is a second primary parameter based on the second parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the second electrode pair, TH_D_2 is a default secondary threshold value, P_3_1 is a third primary parameter based on the third parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the third electrode pair, TH_D_3 is a default tertiary threshold value, and wherein the default operating state is indicative of very low or no degree of radial erosion on the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The default threshold values (TH_D_1, TH_D_2 and TH_D_3) may be the same or different, e.g. depending on the electrode configuration of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.

In one or more exemplary monitor devices, to determine an operating state of the base plate is based on a third criteria set based on the third parameter data, wherein the operating state is determined to be the third operating state if the third criteria set is satisfied, and in accordance with a determination that the operating state is the third operating state, transmit a third monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the third operating state of the ostomy appliance.

In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the third operating state of the base plate corresponds to a situation wherein the first adhesive layer of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part has experienced a third degree of radial erosion, e.g. the first adhesive layer is eroded to the third radial distance of the third electrode pair.

The third criteria set may be given by(P_1_1<TH_3_1),(P_2_1<TH_3_2), and(P_3_1<TH_3_3)wherein P_1_1 is a first primary parameter based on the first parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the first electrode pair, TH_3_1 is a third primary threshold value, P_2_1 is a second primary parameter based on the second parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the second electrode pair, TH_3_2 is a third secondary threshold value, P_3_1 is a third primary parameter based on the third parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the third electrode pair, TH_3_3 is a third tertiary threshold value, and wherein the third operating state is indicative of high degree of radial erosion on the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The third threshold values (TH_3_1, TH_3_2 and TH_3_3) may be the same or different, e.g. depending on the electrode configuration of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The third primary criterion (P_1_1<TH_3_1) and/or the third secondary criterion (P_2_1<TH_3_2) may be omitted in the third criteria set.

In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the ostomy data comprises fourth ostomy data from a fourth electrode pair of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. To apply a processing scheme may comprise to obtain fourth parameter data based on the fourth ostomy data, and determine an operating state of the base plate of the ostomy appliance based on the fourth parameter data. The monitor device may be configured to, in accordance with a determination that the operating state is a fourth operating state, transmit a fourth monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the fourth operating state of the ostomy appliance.

In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the fourth operating state of the base plate corresponds to a situation, wherein the fourth electrode pair detects fluid, such as output, between the distal surface of first adhesive layer and the skin of the user at a fourth radial distance, and thus there is a high risk of leakage from the ostomy appliance in the fourth operating state.

The fourth criteria set may be given by(P_4_1<TH_4_4)wherein P_4_1 is a fourth primary parameter based on the fourth parameter data and indicative of the resistance between the fourth electrode pair and TH_4_4 is a fourth quaternary threshold value, and wherein the fourth operating state is indicative of high risk of leakage from the ostomy appliance.

The monitor device comprises a monitor device housing optionally made of a plastic material. The monitor device housing may be an elongate housing having a first end and a second end. The monitor device housing may have a length or maximum extension along a longitudinal axis in the range from 1 cm to 15 cm. The monitor device housing may have a width or maximum extension perpendicular to the longitudinal axis in the range from 0.5 cm to 3 cm. The monitor device housing may be curve-shaped.

The monitor device comprises a first interface. The first interface may be configured as an appliance interface for electrically and/or mechanically connecting the monitor device to the ostomy appliance. Thus, the appliance interface is configured to electrically and/or mechanically couple the monitor device and the ostomy appliance. The first interface may be configured as an accessory device interface for electrically and/or mechanically connecting the monitor device to an accessory device, such as a docking station. The first interface may be configured for coupling to a docking station of the ostomy system, e.g. for charging the monitor device and/or for data transfer between the monitor device and the docking station.

The first interface of the monitor device may comprise a plurality of terminals, such as two, three, four, five, six, seven or more terminals, for forming electrical connections with respective terminals and/or electrodes of the ostomy appliance. One or more terminals of the first interface may be configured for forming electrical connections with an accessory device, e.g. with respective terminals of a docking station. The first interface may comprise a ground terminal. The first interface may comprise a first terminal, a second terminal and optionally a third terminal. The first interface may comprise a fourth terminal and/or a fifth terminal. The first interface optionally comprises a sixth terminal. In one or more exemplary monitor devices, the first interface has M terminals, wherein M is an integer in the range from 4 to 8.

The first interface of the monitor device may comprise a coupling part (may alternatively be denoted a device coupling part or a monitor device coupling part) for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling between the monitor device and the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The coupling part and the terminals of the first interface form (at least part of) a first connector of the monitor device.

The monitor device comprises a power unit for powering the monitor device. The power unit may comprise a battery. The power unit may comprise charging circuitry connected to the battery and terminals of the first interface for charging the battery via the first interface, e.g. the first connector. The first interface may comprise separate charging terminal(s) for charging the battery.

The monitor device may comprise a sensor unit with one or more sensor. The sensor unit is connected to the processor for feeding sensor data to the processor. The sensor unit may comprise an accelerometer for sensing acceleration and provision of acceleration data to the processor. The sensor unit may comprise a temperature sensor for provision of temperature data to the processor.

The monitor device comprises a second interface connected to the processor. The second interface may be configured as an accessory interface for connecting, e.g. wirelessly connecting, the monitor device to one or more accessory devices. The second interface may comprise an antenna and a wireless transceiver, e.g. configured for wireless communication at frequencies in the range from 2.4 to 2.5 GHz. The wireless transceiver may be a Bluetooth transceiver, i.e. the wireless transceiver may be configured for wireless communication according to Bluetooth protocol, e.g. Bluetooth Low Energy, Bluetooth 4.0, Bluetooth 5. The second interface optionally comprises a loudspeaker and/or a haptic feedback element for provision of an audio signal and/or haptic feedback to the user, respectively.

In one or more exemplary ostomy systems, the monitor device forms an integrated part of the ostomy appliance, e.g. the monitor device may form an integrated part of a base plate and/or the sensor assembly part of the ostomy appliance.

The ostomy system may comprise a docking station forming an accessory device of the ostomy system. The docking station may be configured to electrically and/or mechanically couple the monitor device to the docking station.

The docking station may comprise a docking monitor interface. The docking monitor interface may be configured for electrically and/or mechanically connecting the monitor device to the docking station. The docking monitor interface may be configured for wirelessly connecting the monitor device to the docking station. The docking monitor interface of the docking station may be configured to electrically and/or mechanically couple the docking station and the monitor device.

The docking monitor interface of the docking station may comprise, e.g. as part of a first connector of the docking monitor interface, a coupling part for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling between the monitor device and the docking station. The coupling part may be configured to engage with a coupling part of the monitor device for releasably coupling the monitor device to the docking station.

The docking monitor interface of the docking station may comprise, e.g. as part of a first connector of the docking monitor interface, a plurality of terminals, such as two, three, four, five, six, seven or more terminals, for forming electrical connections with respective terminals of the monitor device. The docking monitor interface may comprise a ground terminal. The docking monitor interface may comprise a first terminal and/or a second terminal. The docking station may comprise a third terminal. The docking monitor interface may comprise a fourth terminal and/or a fifth terminal. The docking monitor interface optionally comprises a sixth terminal.

Disclosed is a base plate for an ostomy appliance, such as a base plate as described above. Also, a sensor assembly part for an ostomy appliance is disclosed, such as a sensor assembly part for being applied to a base plate. The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise: a top layer, a first adhesive layer, an electrode assembly comprising a plurality of electrodes; and a monitor interface configured for connecting the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part to a monitor device, such as mechanically connecting and/or electrically connecting the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part to a monitor device. The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise additional layers and/or features as described above.

The electrode assembly may have a first part and a second part. The first part may comprise connection parts of the plurality of electrodes. The second part may comprise sensing part of the plurality of electrodes. The electrode assembly, such as the second part of the electrode assembly, may be arranged between the first adhesive layer and the top layer.

The monitor interface may comprise a plurality of terminals electrically connected to the plurality of electrodes and configured to connect with respective terminals of the monitor device. The connection parts may form the plurality of terminals of the monitor interface.

The first adhesive layer may be provided such as to not cover a primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly. For example, the first adhesive layer may extend over a first area in a base plate plane and/or in a sensor assembly part plane, and the first part of the electrode assembly may be outside the first area.

Also disclosed is a device for connecting to a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part of an ostomy appliance, such as the above disclosed base plate. The device may be a monitor device, e.g. such as a monitor device as disclosed above. The monitor device may be configured to measure electrical parameters using electrodes of the base plate and/or sensor assembly part. The device may comprise electronic circuitry. The electronic circuitry may include a processor. The electronic circuitry may be enclosed by the device housing.

The device may comprise an appliance interface, e.g. configured for connecting the device to the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The appliance interface may comprise a plurality of terminals, e.g. for forming electrical connection with a plurality of electrodes of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The appliance interface may comprise a device coupling part. The device coupling part may provide for coupling between the device and the base plate.

Also disclosed is a method for manufacturing a base plate or a sensor assembly part, such as a base plate or a sensor assembly part for an ostomy appliance, such as the base plate or the sensor assembly part as disclosed above.

The method may comprise: providing a top layer; providing an electrode assembly comprising a plurality of electrodes; and providing a first adhesive layer.

The electrode assembly may have a first part and a second part. The first part may comprise connection parts of the plurality of electrodes. The second part may comprise sensing part of the plurality of electrodes.

The method may further comprise assembling the top layer, the electrode assembly and the first adhesive layer, e.g. such that the electrode assembly, such as the second part of the electrode assembly, is arranged between the first adhesive layer and the top layer.

The first adhesive layer may be provided such that a primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly is not covered by the first adhesive. For example, the first adhesive layer may be provided to extend over a first area in a base plate plane and/or in a sensor assembly part plane, and the first part of the electrode assembly may be outside the first area.

By providing the first adhesive layer such that it does not cover a primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly, the first part may be accessible for connecting the electrode assembly, such as the plurality of electrodes of the electrode assembly, to connecting parts, such as terminals of a monitor device. For example, the connection parts may be accessible for the terminals of the monitor device, by the first part of the electrode assembly not being covered by the first adhesive.

The top layer, the electrode assembly and/or the first adhesive layer may be substantially planar. The top layer, the electrode assembly and/or the first adhesive layer may extend in a base plate plane and/or in a sensor assembly part plane.

A release liner may be provided on the proximal side of the first adhesive layer. The first adhesive layer may be provided with a release liner on the proximal side of the first adhesive layer. The release liner may have a distal side facing the first adhesive layer. The first adhesive layer may be provided, such as formed, on the release liner, such as on a distal side of the release liner, e.g. by scraping a thin layer of a first composition, such as a first adhesive composition, onto the release liner to form the first adhesive layer. For example, the first adhesive layer may be provided on the release liner by scraping a first composition, such as a first adhesive composition, onto the release liner. The first adhesive layer may be formed on the release liner prior to assembling the top layer, the electrode assembly and the first adhesive layer.

The release liner may be provided with one or more protrusions or elevated parts, such that upon scraping of the first composition on the distal side of the release liner, the first composition is not provided on the protruding or elevated parts. Thereby, holes, indents etc. may be provided in the first adhesive layer.

The release liner may be provided with one or more elevated parts, such as a first elevated part. The first elevated part may provide an exempt area of the release liner whereon the first composition is not disposed. The exempt area and/or the first elevated part may be aligned with the first part of the electrode assembly, e.g. after the first composition is provided on the release liner. For example, the first elevated part may prevent the first composition to be disposed on the first elevated part. Thereby, the first adhesive layer may be formed with an exempt area, i.e. an area of the release liner not covered by the first composition. The first adhesive layer and/or the release liner may be positioned such that the exempt area and/or the first elevated part of the release liner is aligned with the with the first part of the electrode assembly, such that the first adhesive layer does not cover the first part of the electrode assembly.

The electrode assembly may be provided between the top layer and the first adhesive layer. A distal side of the electrode assembly may be facing the top layer. A proximal side of the electrode assembly may be facing the first adhesive layer.

The plurality of electrodes may be provided on a proximal side of the electrode assembly.

The electrode assembly may comprise a support layer. The plurality of electrodes may be provided on the proximal side of the support layer. For example, the plurality of electrodes may be printed on the proximal side of the support layer. The plurality of electrodes may face the first adhesive layer. The plurality of electrodes may contact the first adhesive layer.

The first part of the electrode assembly may have a primary side. The first part of the electrode assembly may have a secondary side. The primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly may be a proximal side of the first part of the electrode assembly. The secondary side of the first part of the electrode assembly may be a distal side of the first part of the electrode assembly. The primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly may initially be a proximal side of the first part of the electrode assembly. The secondary side of the first part of the electrode assembly may initially be a distal side of the first part of the electrode assembly. The first part of the electrode assembly may be turned over, e.g. to expose the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes on a distal side of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. For example, the first part may be bend, e.g. between 170-190 degrees, such as 180 degrees, e.g. for the primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly to face distally. Thus, the primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly may, at least partly, be facing distally. For example, the first part may include a first portion arranged on a distal side of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, such as distal with respect to the top layer, and a second portion that extends from the second part around an edge of the top layer to the first portion.

The monitor interface may comprise a coupling part configured for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling, between the monitor device and the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. For example, the coupling part may be a rigid coupling part. The coupling part may allow for an electrical connection between the monitor device being coupled to the coupling part and the plurality of electrodes of the electrode assembly, such as through the plurality of terminals of the monitor interface and the monitor device.

The coupling part may be attached to the top layer, such as a distal side of the top layer. Alternatively or additionally, the coupling part may be attached to the electrode assembly, such as to a distal side of the electrode assembly, such as to a distal side of the support layer of the electrode assembly. The coupling part may be attached to the top layer and/or the electrode assembly by gluing or welding.

The coupling part may be aligned with the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes. For example, the coupling part may be positioned to cover the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes. Alternatively or additionally, the connection part of the plurality of electrodes may be positioned within a terminal interface region defined by the coupling part. The terminal interface region may be a region wherein terminals, e.g. of the base plate and/or sensor assembly part, may connect, such as mechanically and/or electrically connect, with respective terminals of a monitor device. The terminal interface region need not be a structurally delimited and/or visible region. The terminal interface region may be a region adjacent to the coupling part. Alternatively or additionally, The terminal interface region may be surrounded by the coupling part, such as a region surrounded by the coupling part. The terminal interface region may be within a 20 mm radius of the coupling part, such as within a 10 mm radius of the coupling part, such as within a 5 mm radius of the coupling part, such as within a 1 mm radius of the coupling part. The coupling part may surround the terminal interface region. The coupling part may have one or more outer sides including a first outer side. The terminal interface region may be adjacent an outer side of the coupling part, such as the first outer side.

The electrode assembly may comprise a reinforcement element. The reinforcement element may be forming at least part of the first part of the electrode assembly. The reinforcement element may provide and/or strengthen the first part of the electrode assembly, e.g. to better account for direct contact between the terminals of the monitor device and the attachment parts of the plurality of electrodes. Furthermore, the reinforcement element may facilitate bending of the first part of the electrode assembly, such as to turn the primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly to face distally.

The reinforcement element may comprise a plurality of conductive paths. The plurality of conductive paths may be connected to the plurality of electrodes, e.g. to form the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes. For example, the reinforcement element may be a flex circuit.

The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a second adhesive layer, such as the second adhesive layer as previously disclosed. The second adhesive layer may have a proximal side and/or a distal side. The proximal side of the second adhesive layer may be facing the distal side of the electrode assembly. The distal side of the second adhesive layer may be facing the coupling part. The second adhesive layer may be between the top layer and the electrode assembly. The method may comprise providing the second adhesive layer. The method may comprise positioning the second adhesive layer, e.g. with a proximal side facing the distal side of the electrode assembly. The second adhesive layer may be provided, such as formed, on the proximal side of the top layer, e.g. such that the distal side of the second adhesive layer is facing the proximal side of the top layer. The distal side of the second adhesive layer may be facing the proximal side of the top layer. The second adhesive layer may be provided on the top layer by scraping a thin layer of a second composition, such as a second adhesive composition, onto the top layer, such as on the proximal side of the top layer, to form the second adhesive layer.

The second adhesive layer may extend over a larger area in the base plate plane and/or the sensor assembly part plane than the first adhesive layer. For example, the second adhesive layer may extend over a second area in the base plate plane and/or the sensor assembly part plane, e.g. being larger than the first area and/or covering the first area, where the first adhesive layer extends over the first area.

The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may be cut from assembled layers, e.g. comprising the top layer, the electrode assembly, the first adhesive layer and/or the second adhesive layer. The method may comprise cutting out, such as stamping out, the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part from the assembled top layer, electrode assembly, first adhesive layer and/or second adhesive layer. The cutting out may provide a contour of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part. The cutting out may be provided before turning over the first part of the electrode assembly. The first part of the electrode assembly may have two substantially parallel sides, e.g. in the base plate plane. The base plate may be cut from the assembled layers to provide the first part of the electrode assembly with substantially parallel sides.

The base plate and/or the sensor assembly part may comprise a stomal opening with a center point. For example, the top layer, the second adhesive, the electrode assembly, the first adhesive and/or the release liner may comprise a stomal opening with a center point, e.g. collectively forming the stomal opening with the center point of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.

A horizontal axis in the base plate plane and/or the sensor assembly plane may cross the center point, e.g. of the stomal opening. The horizontal axis may be orientated substantially horizontal, e.g. parallel with the ground, when the base plate is worn as intended. An upper half of the base plate may be defined as the part of the base plate in the base plate plane above the horizontal axis when the base plate is worn as intended. A lower half of the base plate may be defined as the part of the base plate in the base plate plane below the horizontal axis when the base plate is worn as intended.

The coupling part and/or the first part of the electrode assembly may be positioned on the upper half of the base plate and/or sensor assembly part. The coupling part and/or the first part of the electrode assembly may be positioned on the upper half of the base plate and/or sensor assembly part within an angular space from the horizontal axis, e.g. with respect to the center point of the base plate, from 45-135 degrees, such as from 45-90 degrees, or from 90-135 degrees. Such positioning of the coupling part and/or the first part of the electrode assembly may provide that a device, such as the monitor device, may be coupled to the coupling part and/or the first part of the electrode assembly with little or no interference with the ostomy bag. Furthermore, it may ease attachment of the device to the base plate.

FIG.1illustrates an exemplary ostomy system. Theostomy system1comprises anostomy appliance2including abase plate4. Thebase plate4is adapted to support an ostomy pouch (not shown). Further, theostomy system1comprises amonitor device6and an accessory device8(mobile telephone). Themonitor device6is connectable to thebase plate4via respective first connectors of themonitor device6andbase plate4. Themonitor device6is configured for wireless communication with the accessory device8. Optionally, the accessory device8is configured to communicate with aserver device10of theostomy system1, e.g. vianetwork12. Theserver device10may be operated and/or controlled by the ostomy appliance manufacturer and/or a service centre. Ostomy data or parameter data based on the ostomy data are obtained from electrodes/sensors of theostomy appliance2with themonitor device6. Themonitor device6processes the ostomy data and/or parameter data based on the ostomy data to determine monitor data that are transmitted to the accessory device8. In the illustrated ostomy system, the accessory device8is a mobile phone, however the accessory device8may be embodied as another handheld device, such as a tablet device, or a wearable, such as a watch or other wrist-worn electronic device. Accordingly, themonitor device6is configured to determine and transmit monitor data to the accessory device8. Thebase plate4comprises a coupling member14in the form of a coupling ring16for coupling an ostomy pouch (not shown) to the base plate (two-part ostomy appliance). The base plate has a stoma-receivingopening18with a stoma center point. The size and/or shape of thestomal opening18is typically adjusted by the user or nurse before application of the ostomy appliance to accommodate the user's stoma.

Theostomy system1optionally comprises adocking station20forming an accessory device of theostomy system1. Thedocking station20comprises a docking monitor interface including afirst connector22configured for electrically and/or mechanically connecting themonitor device6to thedocking station20. The docking monitor interface may be configured for wirelessly connecting the monitor device to the docking station. Thedocking station20comprises auser interface24for receiving user input and/or providing feedback to the user on the operational state of thedocking station20. Theuser interface24may comprise a touch-screen. Theuser interface24may comprise one or more physical buttons and/or one or more visual indicators, such as light emitting diodes,

FIG.2is a schematic block diagram of an exemplary monitor device. Themonitor device6comprises amonitor device housing100, aprocessor101and one or more interfaces, the one or more interfaces including a first interface102(appliance interface) and a second interface104(accessory interface). Themonitor device6comprises amemory106for storing ostomy data and/or parameter data based on the ostomy data. Thememory106is connected to theprocessor101and/or thefirst interface102.

Thefirst interface102is configured as an appliance interface for electrically and/or mechanically connecting themonitor device6to the ostomy appliance,e.g. ostomy appliance2. Thefirst interface102comprises a plurality of terminals for forming electrical connections with respective terminals of the ostomy appliance2(base plate4). Thefirst interface102comprises aground terminal108, afirst terminal110, asecond terminal112and athird terminal114. Thefirst interface102optionally comprises afourth terminal116and afifth terminal118. Thefirst interface102of themonitor device6comprises acoupling part120for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling between the monitor device and the base plate. Thecoupling part120and theterminals108,110,112,114,116, and118of thefirst interface102form (at least part of) a first connector of themonitor device6.

Themonitor device6comprises apower unit121for powering the monitor device and active components thereof, i.e. thepower unit121is connected to theprocessor101, thefirst interface102, thesecond interface104, andmemory106. The power unit comprises a battery and charging circuitry. The charging circuitry is connected to the battery and terminals of thefirst interface102for charging the battery via terminals of the first interface, e.g. terminals of the first connector.

Thesecond interface104of monitor device is configured as an accessory interface for connecting themonitor device6to one or more accessory devices such as accessory device8. Thesecond interface104comprises anantenna122and awireless transceiver124configured for wireless communication with accessory device(s). Optionally, thesecond interface104comprises aloudspeaker126and/or ahaptic feedback element128for provision of respective audio signal and/or haptic feedback to the user.

Themonitor device6comprises asensor unit140connected to theprocessor101. Thesensor unit140comprises a temperature sensor for feeding temperature data to the processor and a G-sensor or accelerometer for feeding acceleration data to theprocessor101.

Theprocessor101is configured to apply a processing scheme, and thefirst interface102is configured for collecting ostomy data from the base plate coupled to the first interface, the ostomy data comprising first ostomy data from a first electrode pair of the base plate, second ostomy data from a second electrode pair of the base plate, and third ostomy data from a third electrode pair of the base plate. The ostomy data may be stored in thememory106and/or processed in theprocessor101in order to obtain parameter data.

The parameter data may be stored in thememory106. Theprocessor101is configured to apply a processing scheme, wherein to apply a processing scheme comprises obtain first parameter data based on the first ostomy data; obtain second parameter data based on the second ostomy data; obtain third parameter data based on the third ostomy data. In other words, theprocessor101is configured to obtain first, second and third parameter data based on respective first, second and third ostomy data. To apply a processing scheme comprises to determine an operating state of the base plate of the ostomy appliance based on one or more, e.g. all, of the first parameter data, the second parameter data and the third parameter data, wherein the operating state is indicative of a degree of radial erosion of the base plate and/or acute leakage risk for the ostomy appliance. Themonitor device6is configured to, in accordance with a determination that the operating state is a first operating state, transmit a first monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the first operating state of the base plate via the second interface; and in accordance with a determination that the operating state is a second operating state, transmit a second monitor signal comprising monitor data indicative of the second operating state of the base plate via the second interface.

FIG.3illustrates an exploded view of an exemplary base plate of an ostomy appliance. Thebase plate4comprises a firstadhesive layer200. During use, a proximal surface of the firstadhesive layer200adheres to the user's skin in the peristomal area and/or to additional seals, such as sealing paste, sealing tape and/or sealing ring. Thebase plate4optionally comprises a secondadhesive layer202, also denoted rim adhesive layer. Thebase plate4comprises a plurality of electrodes arranged in anelectrode assembly204. Theelectrode assembly204is arranged between the firstadhesive layer200and the secondadhesive layer202. Theelectrode assembly204comprises a support layer with electrodes formed on a proximal surface of the support layer. Thebase plate4comprises arelease liner206that is peeled off by the user prior to applying thebase plate4on the skin. Thebase plate4comprises atop layer208and acoupling ring209for coupling an ostomy pouch to thebase plate4. Thetop layer208is a protective layer protecting the secondadhesive layer202from external strains and stress during use.

Thebase plate4comprises a monitor interface. The monitor interface is configured for electrically and/or mechanically connecting the ostomy appliance (base plate4) to the monitor device. The monitor interface of the base plate comprises acoupling part210for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling between the monitor device and the base plate. Thecoupling part210is configured to engage with a coupling part of the monitor device for releasably coupling the monitor device to thebase plate4. Further, the monitor interface of thebase plate4comprises a plurality of terminal elements respectively forming a plurality of terminals212for forming electrical connections with respective terminals of the monitor device. Thecoupling part210and the terminals212form a first connector211of thebase plate4. Thebase plate4comprises a first intermediate element213on the proximal side of the electrode assembly. The first intermediate element213is arranged between the terminal elements forming terminals212and the first adhesive layer (not shown). The first intermediate element213covers the terminal elements forming terminals212of thebase plate4when seen in the axial direction and protects the first adhesive layer from mechanical stress from the terminal elements of the base plate.

As previously described, some parts of the illustratedbase plate4, may be provided as a separate assembly to be applied to an existing base plate, e.g. comprising one or more of the components as described, such as to provide a base plate like thebase plate4as described. For example, asensor assembly part700may be provided, e.g. comprising theelectrode assembly204, the first connector211, the first intermediate element213, the firstadhesive layer200and therelease liner206. Additionally, thesensor assembly part700may also comprise the secondadhesive layer202and/or thetop layer208. It may be envisioned that the user may provide a hole in layers of the base plate whereto thesensor assembly part700is to be applied, to allow for the first connector211of thesensor assembly part700to protrude through layers of the base plate whereto thesensor assembly part700is applied. Alternatively, thesensor assembly part700may be applied to the base plate such that the first connector211is positioned outside the periphery of the base plate.

FIG.4illustrates an exploded view of anexemplary electrode assembly204of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part. Theelectrode assembly204has adistal side204A and aproximal side204B. The electrode assembly comprises asupport layer214withproximal surface214B andelectrodes216including a ground electrode, a first electrode, a second electrode, a third electrode, a fourth electrode, and a fifth electrode, wherein each electrode has arespective connection part217for connecting theelectrodes216to respective terminal elements of the monitor interface. Theelectrodes216are provided, such as formed, on aproximal side214B of thesupport layer214, e.g. theelectrodes216may be positioned on theproximal side214B of the support layer. Further,electrode assembly204comprises amasking element218withproximal surface218B and configured to insulate electrode parts ofelectrodes216from the first adhesive layer of the base plate and/or a sensor assembly part. The maskingelement218covers or overlap with parts of theelectrodes216when seen in the axial direction.

FIG.5is a proximal view of proximal surfaces of base plate parts of thebase plate4and/or asensor assembly part700without the first adhesive layer and the release liner. Thebase plate4and/or asensor assembly part700comprises a first intermediate element213on the proximal side of the electrode assembly, i.e. between theelectrode assembly204and the first adhesive layer (not shown). The first intermediate element213covers the terminal elements of thebase plate4when seen in the axial direction and protects the first adhesive layer from mechanical stress from the terminal elements of the base plate and/or a sensor assembly part.

FIG.6is a distal view of an exemplary electrode configuration220ofelectrodes216of theelectrode assembly204. Theelectrode assembly204, such as the electrode configuration220of theelectrode assembly204comprises aground electrode222, afirst electrode224, asecond electrode226, athird electrode228, afourth electrode230, and afifth electrode232. Theground electrode222comprises aground connection part222A and thefirst electrode224comprises afirst connection part224A. Thesecond electrode226comprises asecond connection part226A and thethird electrode228comprises athird connection part228A. Thefourth electrode230comprises afourth connection part230A and thefifth electrode232comprise afifth connection part232A.

Thefourth electrode230comprisesfourth sensing parts230B. Thefifth electrode232comprisesfifth sensing parts232B.

Theground electrode222comprises afirst electrode part234for forming a ground for thefirst electrode224. Theground electrode222comprises asecond electrode part236for forming a ground for thesecond electrode226. Theground electrode222comprises athird electrode part238for forming a ground for thethird electrode228. Theground electrode222comprises afourth electrode part240for forming a ground for thefourth electrode230and thefifth electrode232. Thefourth electrode part240of theground electrode222comprisesground sensing parts222B

FIG.7is a distal view of an exemplary masking element. The maskingelement218optionally has a plurality of terminal openings including six terminal openings. The plurality of terminal openings comprises aground terminal opening242, a firstterminal opening244, a second terminal opening246, a thirdterminal opening248, a fourthterminal opening250, and a fifthterminal opening252. Theterminal openings242,244,246,248,250,252of themasking element218are configured to overlap and/or be aligned withrespective connection parts222A,224A,226A,228A,230A,232A of the electrodes of the electrode assembly.

The maskingelement218has a plurality of sensor point openings. The sensor point openings comprise primary sensor point openings shown within dottedline254, each primary sensor point opening configured to overlap a part of theground electrode222and/or a part of thefourth electrode230. The primarysensor point openings254comprise, in the illustrated exemplary masking element, five primary firstsensor point openings254A each configured to overlap a part of theground electrode222. The primarysensor point openings254comprise, in the illustrated exemplary masking element, four primary secondsensor point openings254B each configured to overlap a part of thefourth electrode230. The sensor point openings comprise secondary sensor point openings shown within dottedline256, each second sensor point opening configured to overlap a part of thefourth electrode230and/or a part of thefifth electrode232. The secondarysensor point openings256comprise, in the illustrated exemplary masking element, five secondary firstsensor point openings256A each configured to overlap a part of thefifth electrode232. The secondarysensor point openings256comprise, in the illustrated exemplary masking element, four secondary secondsensor point openings256B each configured to overlap a part of thefourth electrode230. The sensor point openings comprise tertiary sensor point openings shown within dottedline258, each tertiary sensor opening configured to overlap a part of thefifth electrode232and/or a part of theground electrode222. The tertiarysensor point openings258comprise, in the illustrated exemplary masking element, five tertiary firstsensor point openings258A each configured to overlap a part of thefifth electrode232. The tertiarysensor point openings258comprise, in the illustrated exemplary masking element, four tertiary secondsensor point openings258B each configured to overlap a part of theground electrode222.

FIG.8is a distal view of an exemplary first adhesive layer. The firstadhesive layer200has a plurality of sensor point openings. The sensor point openings of the first adhesive layer comprise primary sensor point openings shown within dottedline260, each primary sensor point opening configured to overlap a part of theground electrode222and/or a part of thefourth electrode230of the electrode assembly. The primarysensor point openings260comprise, in the illustrated exemplary first adhesive layer, five primary firstsensor point openings260A each configured to overlap a part of theground electrode222. The primarysensor point openings260comprise, in the illustrated exemplary first adhesive layer, four primary secondsensor point openings260B each configured to overlap a part of thefourth electrode230. The sensor point openings of the first adhesive layer comprise secondary sensor point openings shown within dottedline262, each second sensor point opening configured to overlap a part of thefourth electrode230and/or a part of thefifth electrode232of the electrode assembly. The secondarysensor point openings262comprise, in the illustrated exemplary first adhesive layer, five secondary firstsensor point openings262A each configured to overlap a part of thefifth electrode232. The secondarysensor point openings262comprise, in the illustrated exemplary first adhesive layer, four secondary secondsensor point openings262B each configured to overlap a part of thefourth electrode230. The sensor point openings of the first adhesive layer comprise tertiary sensor point openings shown within dottedline264, each tertiary sensor opening configured to overlap a part of thefifth electrode232and/or a part of theground electrode222of the electrode assembly. The tertiarysensor point openings264comprise, in the illustrated exemplary first adhesive layer, five tertiary firstsensor point openings264A each configured to overlap a part of thefifth electrode232. The tertiarysensor point openings264comprise, in the illustrated exemplary first adhesive layer, four tertiary secondsensor point openings264B each configured to overlap a part of theground electrode222.FIG.9is a proximal view of the first adhesive layer ofFIG.8.

FIG.10is a more detailed distal view of a part of thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700. Thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700comprises a monitor interface207. The monitor interface207comprises the first connector211. The first connector211comprises couplingpart210configured to releasably couple the monitor device to thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700and thus forming a releasable coupling. The first connector211of the monitor interface207comprises a plurality of terminals formed by respective terminal elements for forming respective electrical connections with respective terminals of the monitor device.

The plurality of terminals of the first connector211of the monitor interface207comprises a ground terminal element282forming a ground terminal282A, a first terminal element284forming a first terminal284, a second terminal element286forming a second terminal286A, and a third terminal element288forming a third terminal288A. The monitor interface207optionally comprises a fourth terminal element290forming a fourth terminal290A and/or a fifth terminal element292forming a fifth terminal290. The terminal elements282,284,286,288,290,292contactrespective connection parts222A,224A,226A,228A,230a,232A ofelectrodes222,224,226,228,230,232.

FIG.11illustrates an exploded view of anexemplary base plate4of an ostomy appliance. Thebase plate4comprises a firstadhesive layer200. Thebase plate4optionally comprises a secondadhesive layer202, also denoted rim adhesive layer. Thebase plate4comprises a plurality ofelectrodes216arranged in anelectrode assembly204. Theelectrode assembly204is arranged between the firstadhesive layer200and the secondadhesive layer202. Theelectrode assembly204optionally comprises asupport layer214. The electrodes may be formed on a proximal side of thesupport layer214, such as by printing of conductive ink on the proximal side of thesupport layer214. Theelectrode assembly204optionally comprises amasking element218, e.g. covering or overlapping with parts of theelectrodes216when seen in the axial direction, e.g. from a proximal side of the electrodes. The electrode assembly has afirst part302comprisingconnection parts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216. The electrode assembly has asecond part303. Thesecond part303comprises sensing parts of the plurality ofelectrodes216. Thebase plate4comprises arelease liner206. Thebase plate4comprises atop layer208. Thebase plate4optionally comprises acoupling ring209for coupling an ostomy pouch to thebase plate4. Alternatively, e.g. for a one-part ostomy appliance, an ostomy pouch may be directly fastened to thebase plate4.

Thebase plate4comprises a monitor interface configured for connecting, such as mechanically and/or electronically connecting, the base plate to a monitor device. The monitor interface comprises a plurality of terminals212configured to form electrical connections with respective terminals of the monitor device. For example, as illustrated, theconnection parts217may form the plurality of terminals212of the monitor interface. Alternatively, e.g. as shown inFIG.3, terminal elements may be provided to form the plurality of terminals.

As illustrated by the dashed line, the layers are aligned such that the firstadhesive layer200is not covering a primary side, such as a distal side, of thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204.

Therelease liner206comprises a firstelevated part314and a plurality of protrusions316. The firstadhesive layer200may be provided by scraping a layer of a first composition, such as a first adhesive composition, onto therelease liner206. The increased height of the protrusions316and elevated part(s)314minimizes the distance between the scraping apparatus and therelease liner206such that the first composition is not deposited in these areas. Thereby, the protrusions316accounts for the sensor point openings (e.g.sensor point openings260,262,264ofFIG.8) of the firstadhesive layer200, and the firstelevated part314accounts for thefirst part302, such as the primary side of thefirst part302, of the electrode assembly not being covered by the firstadhesive layer200.

Furthermore, the firstadhesive layer200may typically show viscous properties, and therelease liner206having the protrusions316and the firstelevated part314provides that shape of the firstadhesive layer200, including the sensor point openings, is maintained while therelease liner206is maintained.

Theoptional masking element218may be provided to insulate the plurality ofelectrodes216, or parts of the plurality ofelectrodes216. The maskingelement218has a plurality of terminal openings318to allow connection to the connectingparts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216, e.g. from a proximal side of theelectrode assembly204.

As described in respect toFIG.3, some parts of the illustratedbase plate4, may be provided as a separate assembly to be applied to an existing base plate, e.g. comprising one or more of the components as described, such as to provide a base plate like thebase plate4as described. For example, asensor assembly part700may be provided, e.g. comprising theelectrode assembly204, the firstadhesive layer200and therelease liner206. Additionally, thesensor assembly part700may also comprise the secondadhesive layer202and/or thetop layer208. It may be envisioned that the user may provide a hole in layers of the base plate whereto thesensor assembly part700is to be applied, to allow for connection between the plurality ofelectrodes216of theelectrode assembly204and terminals of a monitor device being coupled to thebase plate4.

FIG.12illustrates an exploded view of anexemplary electrode assembly204of a base plate and/or a sensor assembly part, such as thebase plate4orsensor assembly part700ofFIG.11. Theelectrode assembly204has adistal side204A and aproximal side204B. The electrode assembly comprises asupport layer214with aproximal side214B and adistal side214A. Theelectrode assembly204comprises a plurality ofelectrodes216. Each electrode of the plurality ofelectrodes216has arespective connection part217for connecting theelectrodes216to respective terminal elements of the monitor interface. Theelectrodes216are provided, such as formed, on theproximal side214B of thesupport layer214, e.g. theelectrodes216may be positioned on theproximal side214B of thesupport layer214. Further,electrode assembly204optionally comprises amasking element218withproximal side218B and configured to insulate electrode parts ofelectrodes216from the firstadhesive layer200of thebase plate4and/or the sensor assembly part700(seeFIG.11). The maskingelement218covers or overlap with parts of theelectrodes216when seen in the axial direction, e.g. from theproximal side204B. The maskingelement218may be configured not to cover or overlap the connectingparts217of the plurality of electrodes.

In someexemplary electrode assembly204, such as theelectrode assembly204ofFIG.12, theelectrode assembly204comprises areinforcement element308. Thereinforcement element308may be positioned proximal to theelectrode assembly216, such as proximal to the plurality ofelectrodes216, such as proximal to the plurality ofconnection parts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216. Thereinforcement element308may form at least part of a first part of theelectrode assembly204. Thereinforcement element308may be provided withopenings310to provide conductive pathways between sides of thereinforcement element308, such as between aproximal side308B and adistal side308A of thereinforcement element308.

FIG.13shows an alternative toFIG.12, wherein thereinforcement element308comprises a plurality ofconductive paths311. For example, thereinforcement element308may be a flex circuit. The plurality ofconductive paths311may be connected to the plurality ofelectrodes216. The plurality ofconducive paths311thereby may form theconnection parts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216. The plurality ofconductive paths311may provide conductive pathways between theproximal side308B and thedistal side308A of thereinforcement element308.

FIG.14shows an exemplary electrode configuration220of the plurality ofelectrodes216, like the electrode configuration220as shown inFIG.6, with the difference that theconnection parts217, such as theground connection part222A, thefirst connection part224A, thesecond connection part226A, thethird connection part228A, thefourth connection part230A and/or thefifth connection part232A, are straight connector parts.

FIG.15, shows a sectional schematic representation of part of abase plate4and/or asensor assembly part700. Thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700comprises a firstadhesive layer200, an optional secondadhesive layer202, and atop layer208. Anelectrode assembly204comprising a plurality ofelectrodes216is arranged between the firstadhesive layer200and thetop layer208, such as between the firstadhesive layer200and the secondadhesive layer202. For example, a second part of theelectrode assembly204is arranged between the firstadhesive layer200and the secondadhesive layer202and/or thetop layer208. Theelectrode assembly204further comprises anoptional reinforcement element308and anoptional release liner206.

The firstadhesive layer200is provided such that it does not cover a primary side of afirst part302of theelectrode assembly204. For example, therelease liner206comprises a firstelevated part314such as to facilitate the formation of the firstadhesive layer202to not cover the primary side of thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204. The primary side of thefirst part302may be a proximal side of thefirst part302. Thefirst part302includes the connection parts of the plurality ofelectrodes216and thereinforcement element308or part of thereinforcement element308. Thefirst part302may include part of thesupport layer214.

FIG.16, shows a sectional schematic representation of part of abase plate4and/or asensor assembly part700as shown inFIG.15, further illustrating that theconnection parts217may be accessible, e.g. by slightly bending thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204in a distal direction. Alternatively, therelease liner206may be removed so thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204is accessible from a proximal side.

Because the firstadhesive layer200is not covering thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204, thefirst part302is not adhered to the release liner or any other proximally positioned layers. Therefore, theconnection parts217may be accessible, e.g. for connection with a monitor device. Connection to theconnection parts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216may be provided through thereinforcement element308, or theconnection parts217may be formed by conductive paths of thereinforcement element308.

FIG.17, shows a sectional schematic representation of part of abase plate4and/or asensor assembly part700. Thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700comprises a firstadhesive layer200, an optional secondadhesive layer202, and atop layer208. Anelectrode assembly204comprising a plurality ofelectrodes216is arranged between the firstadhesive layer200and thetop layer208, such as between the firstadhesive layer200and the secondadhesive layer202. For example, a second part of theelectrode assembly204is arranged between the first adhesive layer and the secondadhesive layer202/thetop layer208. Although not illustrated, theelectrode assembly204may comprise areinforcement element308, e.g. as illustrated inFIGS.15and16. Thus, thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700ofFIG.17may correspond to thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700, respectively, ofFIGS.15and16.

Thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204, together with thetop layer208and the optional second adhesive layer, has been turned over to expose theconnection parts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216on a distal side of thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700. Thus, the primary side of thefirst part302initially being a proximal side (as shown inFIG.15) is, after thefirst part302has been turned, facing distally.

FIG.18, shows a sectional schematic representation of part of abase plate4and/or asensor assembly part700as shown inFIG.17, wherein thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700comprises acoupling part210. Thecoupling part210is configured for forming a mechanical connection between the monitor device and thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700. Thefirst part302of theelectrode assembly204is extending into thecoupling part210, e.g. to allow the monitor device, such as terminals of the monitor device to connect to theelectrodes216of thebase plate4and/or thesensor assembly part700. Thecoupling part210is positioned to cover theconnection parts217of the plurality ofelectrodes216. Thecoupling part210may be attached to thetop layer208and/or thecoupling part210may be attached to theelectrode assembly204.

FIG.19shows a flowchart of anexemplary method1000, such as a method for manufacturing a base plate or a sensor assembly part for an ostomy appliance. The method comprises providing1002a top layer, optionally providing1004a second adhesive layer, and providing1006an electrode assembly comprising a plurality of electrodes, the electrode assembly having a first part and a second part, the first part comprising connection parts of the plurality of electrodes. The method further comprises: providing1008a first adhesive layer, assembling1010the top layer, the optional second adhesive layer, the electrode assembly and the first adhesive layer. The first adhesive layer being provided1008such that a primary side of the first part of the electrode assembly is not covered by thefirst adhesive1008.

Assembling1010the top layer, the optional second adhesive layer, the electrode assembly and the first adhesive layer includes assembling such that the electrode assembly is arranged between the first adhesive layer and the top layer and/or between the first adhesive layer and the optional second adhesive layer. For example, assembling1010the top layer, the optional second adhesive layer, the electrode assembly and the first adhesive layer includes assembling such that the second part of the electrode assembly, e.g. comprising sensing parts of the plurality of electrodes, is arranged between the first adhesive layer and the second adhesive layer/the top layer.

Themethod1000furthermore optionally comprises providing1016a coupling part on the base plate or sensor assembly part. The coupling part may be provided1016to be aligned with the top layer opening and the optional second adhesive layer opening. The coupling part may be provided1016to be aligned with the first part of the electrode assembly.

Themethod1000furthermore optionally comprises providing1018a release liner. The first adhesive layer may be provided1008on the release liner. For example, the first adhesive layer may be provided1008, such as formed, on the release liner by scraping of a first composition, such as a first adhesive composition. The release liner may comprise a first elevated part for forming an area not covered by the first adhesive layer. The first elevated part and consequently the area not covered by the first adhesive layer may be aligned with the first part of the electrode assembly, such that the first adhesive layer does not cover the first part of the electrode assembly.

The position of the first connector on the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part, the number of terminals and the position of the terminals in the coupling part may be adapted to the electrode configuration used in the electrode assembly of the base plate and/or the sensor assembly part.

The use of the terms “first”, “second”, “third” and “fourth”, “primary”, “secondary”, “tertiary” etc. does not imply any particular order, but are included to identify individual elements. Moreover, the use of the terms “first”, “second”, “third” and “fourth”, “primary”, “secondary”, “tertiary” etc. does not denote any order or importance, but rather the terms “first”, “second”, “third” and “fourth”, “primary”, “secondary”, “tertiary” etc. are used to distinguish one element from another. Note that the words “first”, “second”, “third” and “fourth”, “primary”, “secondary”, “tertiary” etc. are used here and elsewhere for labelling purposes only and are not intended to denote any specific spatial or temporal ordering. Furthermore, the labelling of a first element does not imply the presence of a second element and vice versa.

Although particular features have been shown and described, it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the claimed invention, and it will be made obvious to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed invention. The specification and drawings are, accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense. The claimed invention is intended to cover all alternatives, modifications and equivalents.

Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure are set out in the following items:

1. Method for manufacturing a base plate or a sensor assembly part for an ostomy appliance, the method comprising:

2. Method according toitem1 comprising providing a release liner, and wherein the first adhesive layer is provided on the release liner.

3. Method according toitem2, wherein the release liner comprises a first elevated part and the first adhesive layer is provided on the release liner by scraping a first composition onto the release liner, the first elevated part providing an exempt area of the release liner whereon the first adhesive composition is not disposed, the exempt area being aligned with the first part of the electrode assembly.

4. A base plate for an ostomy appliance, the base plate comprising:

5. The base plate ofitem4, wherein the connection parts forms the plurality of terminals of the monitor interface.

6. The base plate of any of items 4-5, wherein the plurality of electrodes is provided on a proximal side of the electrode assembly.

7. The base plate ofitem6, wherein the first part of the electrode assembly is turned over to expose the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes on a distal side of the base plate.

8. The base plate of any of items 4-7, wherein the monitor interface comprises a coupling part configured for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling, between the monitor device and the base plate.

9. The base plate of item 8, wherein the coupling part is attached to the top layer, such as a distal side of the top layer.

10. The base plate of item 9 as dependent on item 7, wherein the coupling part is positioned to cover the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes.

11. The base plate of items 4-10, wherein the electrode assembly comprises a reinforcement element, and wherein the reinforcement element is forming at least part of the first part of the electrode assembly.

12. The base plate of item 11, wherein the reinforcement element comprises a plurality of conductive paths connected to the plurality of electrodes to form the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes.

13. The base plate of any ofitems11 or 12, wherein the reinforcement element is a flex circuit.

14. The base plate of any of items 4-13 comprising a second adhesive layer between the top layer and the electrode assembly.

15. A base plate for an ostomy appliance obtainable by the method according to any of items 1-3.

16. A sensor assembly part for an ostomy appliance, the sensor assembly part comprising:

17. The sensor assembly part of item 16, wherein the connection parts forms the plurality of terminals of the monitor interface.

18. The sensor assembly part of any of items 16-17, wherein the plurality of electrodes is provided on a proximal side of the electrode assembly.

19. The sensor assembly part ofitem18, wherein the first part of the electrode assembly is turned over to expose the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes on a distal side of the sensor assembly part.

20. The sensor assembly part of any of items 16-19, wherein the monitor interface comprises a coupling part configured for forming a mechanical connection, such as a releasable coupling, between the monitor device and the sensor assembly part.

21. The sensor assembly part ofitem20, wherein the coupling part is attached to the top layer, such as a distal side of the top layer.

22. The sensor assembly part of item 21 as dependent on item 7, wherein the coupling part is positioned to cover the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes.

23. The sensor assembly part of items 16-22, wherein the electrode assembly comprises a reinforcement element, and wherein the reinforcement element is forming at least part of the first part of the electrode assembly.

24. The sensor assembly part of item 23, wherein the reinforcement element comprises a plurality of conductive paths connected to the plurality of electrodes to form the connection parts of the plurality of electrodes.

25. The sensor assembly part of any ofitems23 or 24, wherein the reinforcement element is a flex circuit.

26. The sensor assembly part of any of items 16-25 comprising a second adhesive layer between the top layer and the electrode assembly.

27. A sensor assembly part for an ostomy appliance obtainable by the method according to any of items 1-3.