DESCRIPTION:
TECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention generally relates to the field of wearable devices, more particularly to the apparatus commonly referred to as “smart watches”, as well as to other wearable timepieces, as well as the methods of combining such devices together.BACKGROUNDSmart watches, also often referred to as “smartwatches”, are portable electronic devices, worn like a wristwatch, or like a fashion accessory on a strap, or a belt, or some other fashion or jewelry contrivance. Smart watches are essentially small computers, as they include a processor, some memory, a display, a communication component, an ability to accept user input, and an ability to download and execute a variety of application software.Like all electronic devices, smart watches depend for their functioning on having a built-in source of time, which enables them to perform the key function of a conventional timepiece: display the current time.The ability of a smart watch to display the time is commonly seen as a cornerstone function of the device. A smart watch that does not function as a watch is usually seen as showing an unacceptable regression of its most basic function. Such device cannot be classified as a smart watch and would have to compete for space on the wrist of the user against a conventional watch that actually shows time and belongs on the wrist by custom and tradition.In many human cultures, particularly the ones relying on the daily use of electronic devices, personal time management and thus immediate access to the current time are accepted as a common and essential utility. Various wristwatches with mechanical, quartz, kinetic, and other movements are commonly available and have established clear expectations of dependability.Thus a need exists for an apparatus combining the benefits of the extensive functionality of smart watches with an ability to display time, similar in its dependability to traditional mechanical, quartz, and kinetic timepieces.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONAspects of the present invention address at least the above-mentioned problems and/or disadvantages and provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly, an aspect of the present invention introduces an apparatus combining a smart watch and a conventional watch movement together into a “hybrid smart watch”, to offer the benefits of both.The invention therefore concerns a hybrid wearable device comprising (A) a smart watch with at least a pixel-addressable digital display, a general purpose processor, an instruction and data memory, and a communications component, said “smart watch” component also referred to as “digital subsystem” or “electronic component” from here on, and (B) an alternate (mechanical, quartz, kinetic, or other) watch movement (or, possibly, multiple movements), also referred to from here on as “analog subsystem” or “conventional movement.”A smart watch and an alternate, conventional (mechanical, quartz, kinetic, or other) movement each can have a dedicated power source, such a battery, capacitor, mainspring, mechanical rotor or some other means of storing and releasing energy, from here on is referred to as “energy storage”. The process of adding energy to the energy storage, whether electrical or mechanical, from here on is referred to simply as “charging”.An analog time indicator in the form of a mechanical dial, where passage of time or change in other data, like, for example, power reserve, is indicated by physically moving one element relative to another, or any of the many embodiments known in the timepiece industry (from here on simply referred to as “analog dial” for brevity) is shown to the user. A smart watch pixel-addressable digital display is also shown to the user.The analog dial indicates the time as established by the conventional movement within the hybrid smart watch. The digital display may indicate the time as established by the electronic component of the hybrid smart watch, or it may display the information imparted by various applications that may or may not relate to the time measurement function of the hybrid smart watch.The analog dial and the digital display may be combined to offer enhanced functionality, and multiple analogue dials and digital displays may be combined within a single hybrid smart watch.The electronic component of the hybrid smart watch can be further combined with the conventional movement or movements to facilitate time display such that at times the analog dial displays the time as measured by the electronic components, and/or the digital display shows time as measured by the conventional movement.Elements of the analog dial may be integrated with the electronic component of a hybrid smart watch in such a fashion that the elements of an analog dial may be utilized to indicate information outside of time measurement domain, such as, for example, direction, air quality, radiation levels, available storage capacity, strength of communication signal, or any of the myriad other measurements available to the electronic component of the hybrid smart watch.The electronic component of the hybrid smart watch can be further combined with the conventional movement to provide the benefits of integration, for example, to measure the precision of the conventional movement and sense the time it displays, adjust the conventional movement to display the correct time as indicated by the network services, regulate the subsystems of conventional movement so that they measure time with higher precision, change the time indicated by the conventional movement to adjust to a time zone change, wind up the spring of a mechanical movement (or otherwise charge up the power storage dedicated to a quartz movement) using the electronic component of the hybrid smart watch as the power source.Electronic elements of the hybrid smart watch may control and/or utilize one or several forms of energy harvesting, including, but not limited to any combination of some or all of photovoltaic, piezoelectric, thermoelectric, kinetic, radio, microwave or some other form of energy harvesting. The harvested energy may then be used to wind up or otherwise recharge, drive, or augment the power source of the conventional (mechanical, quartz, kinetic, or other) movement.Other aspects, advantages, and salient features of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description, which, taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings, discloses various embodiments of the present invention.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSThe above and other aspects, features, and benefits of certain embodiments of the present invention will be more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which:FIG. 1illustrates a front view of a hybrid smart watch with a rectangular digital display where the hour and minute hands of the analogue watch dial overlay the digital display.FIG. 2shows a schematic side view of a hybrid smart watch, where the pinions that drive the hour and minute hands protrude through a hole in the digital display.FIG. 3demonstrates a hybrid smart watch with a round face, a digital display in the center, the permanent hour marks outside the digital display, and the hour and minute hands overlaying the digital display.FIG. 4illustrates a hybrid smart watch with a round face, a digital display in the center, the permanent hour marks outside of the display, and the hour and minute hands driven from the periphery of the watch face.FIG. 5shows a hybrid smart watch with a round face, a digital display in the center, the permanent hour marks outside of the display, the hour and minute hands driven from the periphery of the watch face, and a closed aperture hiding the digital display.FIG. 6shows a hybrid smart watch held on a human wrist by a strap, with a crown shaped so that bending the hand towards the watch would push the crown towards the enclosure of the watch, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.FIG. 7shows a sequence diagram illustrating the system for adjusting the time shown by the analogue subsystem of a hybrid smart watch.FIG. 8presents a block diagram of one embodiment of a hybrid smart watch, showing the digital and analogue subsystems and possible interactions among them.FIG. 9depicts a hybrid smart watch with a round face, an analog dial and a digital display, and scheduling information text and icons presented on the digital display at the locations next to the current positions of the analog hands and the time markings on the analog dial, so as to be associated with such by the user.FIG. 10illustrates a hybrid smart watch with a round face, a digital display in the center, permanent analog time marks on the analog dial outside of the display, and the hour and minute hands driven from the periphery of the watch face; with a menu of selections shown on the digital display and positioned next to the current location of the minute hand.FIG. 11illustrates a hybrid smart watch with a round face, a digital display in the center, permanent hour marks outside of the digital display, the hour, minute, and second hands overlaying the digital display, with the second hand temporarily detached from the analog watch mechanism and used to indicate pulse relative to the markings shown on the digital display.DETAILED DESCRIPTIONTechnical ProblemThe ability of a computing device to perform its functions, including the function of displaying time, depends on the availability of electrical power. Wearable devices are, by their nature, usually disconnected from the power grid and thus rely on battery power. Yet the power supplied by the batteries is constrained by the wearable form factor itself—there is only so much one is usually willing to carry on the wrist.One of the biggest consumers of power in a smart watch has been the display, to the point where many smart watches can sustain only a precious few hours of operation with the display constantly switched on. Various methods for constraining the power-consuming uses of smart watches have been implemented, but they all clash with the consumer's desire to enjoy the device in its full functionality.Thus there is a contradiction: smart watches instigate more active use than conventional timepieces, yet once a smart watch is out of power it cannot even tell the time.Similarly, while connected smart watches can automatically adjust their time to match precisely the time and time zone provided by specialized network services, thus significantly exceeding the precision of the mechanical movements that require a manual intervention of the user or a skilled professional to avoid time drift, even perfect precision is moot when a smart watch cannot show the time. Yet the mechanical movements do not lend themselves to an automatic adjustment to network time.OverviewThe following detailed description of the invention is intended to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the invention as defined by the claims and their equivalents. Accordingly, those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various modifications of the embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the current invention. In addition, descriptions of well-known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.These detailed description of the invention are to be regarded as merely exemplary in nature and are not intended to limit the invention or the application and uses of the invention. Furthermore, there is no intention to be bound by any theory presented in the preceding background or the following detailed description.It is to be understood that the singular forms “a,” “an,” and “the” include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to “a communications unit” includes reference to one or more such units.The following various embodiments describe a hybrid smart watch with multiple sources of time, multiple power sources, and multiple time indicator mechanisms.FIG. 8is a block diagram presenting one embodiment of a hybrid smart watch, containing thedigital subsystem810, theanalog watch subsystem820, and thetime adjustment subsystem830and theenergy transfer unit840.Referring toFIG. 8, the digital subsystem may include acontroller811, acommunication unit815with anexternal interface816, adigital display817, atactile feedback system818, aninternal clock812,data storage814, andenergy storage813.Thecontroller811may control general operations of thedigital subsystem810and a signal flow between the components within. More particularly, it may execute various application and system software residing in thedata storage814or elsewhere, perform operations on the system and user data residing in thedata storage814or available over thecommunication unit815, display the data and user interface elements via thedigital display817, read and set theinternal clock812, read the state of theenergy storage813, interact and control thetime interaction subsystem830, and engage theenergy transfer unit840.Thedata storage814may store a program code required for operations according to an embodiment of the present invention, user data, or the like. For example, thestorage unit814may store a program that controls general operations of thedigital subsystem810, applications required for an operating system (OS) booting thedigital subsystem810, interacting over various communications protocols such as IP, Bluetooth, ZigBee, Wi-Fi, LTE, and the like, and additional functions of thedigital subsystem810of the hybrid smart watch, including but not limited to all or any of a camera function, a music playback function, an image display function, a video play function, or the like. More particularly, thestorage unit814may store user preferences regarding the automatic adjustment of the analog subsystem when a time correction is suggested by the digital subsystem, for example when the digital sub-system discovers that the user has entered a different time zone, or when the analog subsystem has been deviating from the expected time by a certain, configurable amount, for example three seconds or more.Thecommunication unit815may form wireless or wired communication channels with other devices and network services. It may have asingle communication interface816or multiple communication interfaces as needed. In fact, multiple, medium-specific communications units might be employed in various embodiments of the present invention. Thecommunication unit815may use a communication technology such as Ethernet, Universal Serial Bus (USB), Bluetooth, infrared communication, Wi-Fi, Wi-Fi Direct, home RF, DLNA, ZigBee, or the like. More particularly, thecommunication unit815may form a communication channel with a network time service employing NTP or a functionally similar protocol, and may thus discover events such as clock drift or time zone change. Such events may trigger thecontroller811to make automatic adjustments, or to communicate the need for such adjustments to the user via thedigital display817, thetactile feedback system818, or some other means.Thedigital display817shows the information and user interface presented by the applications and the operating system executed within the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch, information provided by external devices via thecommunication unit815, or the information generated by various sensors and components of the digital subsystem, as well as the sensors and components interacting with the analog subsystem of the smart watch. For example, thedisplay unit817may provide work areas for various applications such as a weather report, a message reader, a digital timer, a power indicator, a “wondering”, “jumping”, or retrograde indicator, while also showing a dial that would indicate the time when considered in conjunction with theanalog time indicator822, such as the mechanical hour and minute hands as shown inFIG. 1.Thetactile feedback system818drives one or many mechanisms that provide information to the user of the hybrid smart watch via one or more haptic mechanisms. Such mechanisms may be simple like a single-point pressure actuator, or complex, with patterns extended in time and across multiple pressure points. For example, when thecontroller811determines that the time in theinternal clock812deviates from the time as known to theanalog subsystem820of the hybrid smart watch by a certain pre-configured amount, it may alert the user by sending a tactile pattern that would be perceived by the user as an alert requiring a human intervention.Theinternal clock812is an essential component of any electronic system and thus of thedigital subsystem810. The digital subsystem may contain multiple such clocks necessary for the operation of its components. The internal clock does not necessarily have to keep track of the date or the hour, but rather of the passage of time. Thecontroller811may translate the passage of time as indicated by theinternal clock812into the current date and time as perceived by humans. Thecontroller811may request and receive the current time and date from various network services via thecommunications unit815. Once thecontroller811arrives, as a result of a network dialogue viacommunications unit815, at what it perceives to be an accurate current time, it may adjust theinternal clock812, or adjust the formula it uses to translate the time reported by theinternal clock812into the time in human-readable format. Likewise, the time as reported by theinternal clock812or arrived at through a network transaction viacommunications unit815may be used to adjust the time in theanalog subsystem820. Thus an external source can be utilized to adjust either the internal time of the hybrid smart watch, or the time displayed by the hybrid smart watch on its digital or analog dial(s).Theenergy storage813provides electric power to all the components of thedigital subsystem810, as well astime adjustment sub-system830, and may provide power to theenergy transfer unit840as well. Theenergy storage813is charged by anenergy capture unit819, which receives energy from a wired source such as USB power, a power harvesting subsystem, a wireless source such as inductive charging, or the like. Thecontroller811can receive indications of the amount of power stored withinenergy storage813and adjust the behavior of thedigital subsystem810and its components accordingly, as well as alert the user. The power contained within theenergy storage813could be used to charge theenergy storage823of the analog subsystem of the hybrid smart watch. Mechanisms for efficiently and safely regulating and charging small power sources are well-known in the art and will not be enumerated here.Although not illustrated inFIG. 8, thedigital subsystem810may further include optional components for providing additional functions, such as a camera module for photographing an image or a video, a broadcasting reception module for receiving broadcasts, a digital music playback module, and a sensor module for proximity, acceleration, radiation, and other sensing. All the types of components cannot be listed since a variation on the components varies greatly according to a convergence trend of digital devices, and thedigital subsystem810of a hybrid smart watch according to embodiments of the present invention may further include components in a level equal to that of the above listed components.Still referring toFIG. 8, the analog subsystem of a hybrid smart watch may include anenergy storage823, such as a spring, battery, capacitor, fuel cell, or the like, awatch movement821, and atime indicator822such as an analog dial with hour, minute and second hands. When considered alone, on its own merits, and without the rest of the hybrid smart watch, the analog subsystem is similar to a common wristwatch.Thetime indicator822may be any of the known analog time indicators using, for example, separate hands to indicate hours, minutes, seconds, and fractions thereof, or a wondering hour dial, a sun-and-moon dial, a mystery dial, a jumping or retrograde display, or any other mechanical contrivance for showing time. Thetime indicator822may rely on thedigital display817to provide the context for the time it displays, such as digitally displayed hour and minute marks, or the current hour in case of the wondering hour time indicator. Thetime indicator822may include multiple interrelated or independent indicators, showing different times or the same time in different formats, driven by the same movement or by multiple watch movements. The time indicator may also display the date or dates as per various calendars, as well as the time elapsed from a certain moment, or time remaining until a certain moment in the future.The time currently shown by thetime indicator822may be captured by the time indicator sensor831and reported to thecontroller811. The time indicator itself may be adjusted by thetime adjustment mechanism832based on a command from thecontroller811. For example, in one embodiment of the invention, thecontroller811would discover as a result of a transaction with a network time service like GPS, GSM, or LTE that the hybrid smart watch has entered a different time zone, and would command thetime adjustment mechanism832to move the hour and minute hands of the time dial to match the local time. In another embodiment, thecontroller811may command thetime adjustment mechanism832to regulate the conventional mechanism so as to improve precision of the same. In another embodiment, the watch asks the user if they wish to have the time adjusted. For example, some people who travel like to keep the conventional watch indicating their home time.Thewatch movement821, such as mechanical, quartz, kinetic, or some other movement, counts the time and controls the state of thetime indicator822using power from theenergy storage823. A hybrid smart watch may have more than one watch movement, just as it may have more than one time indicator. The watch movement may track the time based on the common 24-hour day scale and the Gregorian calendar, or may track the sidereal time, the solar time, or other times such as measured by various cultural and religious traditions. The watch movement may also use Gregorian, Mayan, or any of the multitudes of other calendars.Theenergy storage823of the analog subsystem of the hybrid smart watch provides power to thewatch movement821. The energy storage may be implemented as a battery or a capacitor for a quartz movement, a spring for a mechanical movement, or the like. It may also be augmented by an energy-harvesting mechanism. In some embodiments of the present invention thecontroller811would be able to command theenergy transfer unit840to transfer some energy fromenergy storage813of the digital subsystem to theenergy storage823of the analogue subsystem. For example, as the hybrid smart watch is charging from an inductive charger, it may also automatically wind up the spring of the mechanical movement driving the analog subsystem of the hybrid smart watch.FIG. 1shows a front view of a hybrid smart watch with a digital display where the hour and minute hands of the analogue watch component overlay the digital display.Turning toFIG. 1, a hybrid smart watch is shown enclosed in acase110with awrist strap150. In this particular embodiment, one of many possible embodiments of the current invention, the hybrid smart watch has a rectangulardigital display120. The rectangular display is depicted showing theweather indicators170and theArabic numerals160marking the hours. The digital display is driven by the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch, while thehour hand130and theminute hand140are driven by the analog subsystem of the hybrid smart watch. Such an embodiment allows for an easy change of the dial, say from Arabic to Roman numerals, for display of information from various software applications, and for display of the time even when the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch has been shut down.FIG. 2shows a cross-section view of an embodiment of the present invention. Thecase210is covered by aprotective lens220and contains both the digital and the analog subsystems of the hybrid smart watch.OnFIG. 2theboard232with a controller, a communications unit, and other digital components, is connected byleads233to thebattery234. Theboard232and the digital components residing on it are also connected byleads231to thedigital display235. In some embodiments all or several digital components may be integrated with the digital display and/or the power source.Further onFIG. 2, thewatch movement246is shown driving thehour hand242andminute hand241via thepinions243with thehour wheel247and thecannon pinion248. Furthermore,FIG. 2shows thestem245and the crown244that can be used to adjust themovement246.ThusFIG. 2provides an illustration of one possible embodiment of the current invention where the pertinent components of the digital and analog subsystems are packaged together to comprise a hybrid smart watch.FIG. 3demonstrates another embodiment of the present invention, a hybrid smart watch in around case320with awrist strap310, adigital display380in the center, ananalog dial330with permanent hour marks outside of the digital display, and thehour hand360,minute hand370andsecond hand350mounted above the digital display. Thecrown340could be used to adjust the hour and minute hands, or even adjust the time perceived by the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch and shown on thedigital display380. Thus in this possible embodiment the analog watch is fully divorced in its representation of time from the digital subsystem, yet the digital subsystem is still intimately integrated within the hybrid smart watch.FIG. 4illustrates a particular embodiment of the present invention, a hybrid smart watch in around enclosure420with awrist strap410, adigital display480in the center, and an analog dial430with permanent hour marks outside of the digital display. Thehour hand440and theminute hand460are driven from the periphery of the watch face with a mechanism possibly similar (although not limited to) the “Mysterious Wall Clock” from U.S. Pat. No. 2,153,004 issued in 1937. Thecrown450could be used to adjust the hour and minute hands, or even adjust the time perceived by the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch and shown on thedigital display480. In this embodiment the analog time indicator does not interfere with the digital display driven by the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch, while comprising an integrated device.FIG. 5shows an advantageous embodiment of the present invention, a hybrid smart watch in around enclosure520with awrist strap510, where the digital display is covered with anaperture580, thus indicating that the display is intentionally switched off. Thehour hand540and theminute hand560are driven from the periphery of the watch face and use the permanent hour marks outside of the display to indicate the time. Thecrown550can be used to control the hybrid smart watch, or can be pushed in to cause the aperture to close and to shut down the digital display, or, subsequently, to open and trigger the switching on of the digital display. When digital display is switched off, the smart watch knows it is not being viewed and thus can go into low power mode. Conversely, when the display is switched on the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch can draw more power to achieve higher performance. As such, this overcomes the design problem of poor performance of the smart watch because of power optimizations to improve overall battery life in the prior art.FIG. 9demonstrates an embodiment of the present invention, a hybrid smart watch in around case910with ananalog dial920, adigital display930, andanalog hands940and990, where time-related information is shown on the digital display at several significant locations. Meetingicons970and980are shown at five o'clock and six o'clock respectively, indicating scheduled activities. In this example theicon980clearly indicates that the six o'clock meeting has been cancelled.FIG. 9also demonstratesinformation950regarding the location of the next upcoming activity and the approximate time necessary to get to the location shown on thedigital display930so that when the minute hand will arrive to the markings, it will be clear to the user that an action is indicated.FIG. 9further shows information shown on thedigital display960next to the current position of theminute hand990. Thus the time-sensitive data is displayed in its time context for the convenience of the user.ThusFIG. 9illustrates various embodiments of the current invention wherein the information on the digital display is shown at significant locations associated with the analog dial and the current position of the analog hands of the hybrid smart watch, thus communicating to the user time-anchored data clearly and succinctly.FIG. 10illustrates a particular embodiment of the present invention, a hybrid smart watch in anenclosure1010with awrist strap410, ananalog dial1020, adigital display1030and the analog hands: thehour hand1060and theminute hand1040. In this particular embodiment, a menu of easily accessible actions is shown next to the current location of the minute hand, so as to be instantly recognizable by the user reading the time.Another embodiment taking advantage of the hybrid nature of the smart watch presented in the current invention is depicted inFIG. 11. Here a hybridsmart watch1110is shown with ananalog dial1120, adigital display1130, and the analog hands: thehour hand1150, theminute hand1160, and thesecond hand1140. Thesecond hand1140is shown temporarily detached from the analog subsystem, so that instead of indicating the passage of time, it is controlled by the digital subsystem to indicate pulse, relative to thescale1180shown on the digital display, where the function of the scale is further indicated by thelabel1170shown on the digital display. Thus an inherently analog component of a hybrid smart watch can be coupled with the digital subsystem to implement a clearer, less distracting, user interface.FIG. 6illustrates an embodiment of the current invention where a hybridsmart watch630is attached to awrist610by awrist strap640. The crown of the watch is given a shape such that when the hand is bent backward, as depicted inFIG. 6, it would push in thecrown620. Such a crown could be used, for example, to trigger the opening/closing of an aperture depicted inFIG. 5and the switching on and off of the digital display without the need to engage another hand or some other triggering mechanism.FIG. 7is a sequence diagram illustrating a system for adjusting the time shown by the analogue subsystem of a hybrid smart watch.Turning toFIG. 7, thecontroller701of the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch issues therequest710to thecommunications unit702. Thecommunications unit702initiates the pertinent network protocol and requests thecurrent network time711from thenetwork time source706. Common examples of a network time source are Network Time Protocol servers like pool.ntp.org, or GPS and cellular networks. In some systems a network time source, like NIST radio station or Global Positioning System satellites, broadcast current time continuously, thus making the step of requesting network time unnecessary. Once thenetwork time source706sends thecurrent network time712to thecommunications unit702, thecommunications unit702returns thenetwork time713to thecontroller701.Having received thenetwork time713, thecontroller701reads the watch time, as displayed by the time indicator, from thetime indicator sensor703. When theindicator sensor703reportscurrent watch time715to thecontroller701, thecontroller701compares it to the network time received earlier and makes adecision716whether there is a need to adjust the watch time.If time adjustment is indicated, thecontroller701raises the request717to theuser705asking for permission to adjust the watch. In various embodiments of the present invention such a request could be issued via a digital display, a dedicated indicator, a sound, a haptic subsystem or by some other means. Once theuser705issues the permission718to adjust the watch, thecontroller701sends the command719to adjust the watch to theactuator704. Theactuator704would then physically affect the analog time indicator to adjust the time displayed.CONCLUSIONWhile this invention has been described in conjunction with the specific embodiments outlined above, it is evident that many alternatives, modifications, and variations will be apparent to those ordinarily skilled in the art. Accordingly, the preferred embodiments of the invention as set forth above are intended to be illustrative, not limiting. Various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the inventions as defined in the following claims.

TECHNICAL FIELDThe present invention generally relates to the field of wearable devices, more particularly to the apparatus commonly referred to as “smart watches”, as well as to other wearable timepieces, as well as the methods of combining such devices together.BACKGROUNDSmart watches, also often referred to as “smartwatches”, are portable electronic devices, worn like a wristwatch, or like a fashion accessory on a strap, or a belt, or some other fashion or jewelry contrivance. Smart watches are essentially small computers, as they include a processor, some memory, a display, a communication component, an ability to accept user input, and an ability to download and execute a variety of application software.Like all electronic devices, smart watches depend for their functioning on having a built-in source of time, which enables them to perform the key function of a conventional timepiece: display the current time.The ability of a smart watch to display the time is commonly seen as a cornerstone function of the device. A smart watch that does not function as a watch is usually seen as showing an unacceptable regression of its most basic function. Such device cannot be classified as a smart watch and would have to compete for space on the wrist of the user against a conventional watch that actually shows time and belongs on the wrist by custom and tradition.In many human cultures, particularly the ones relying on the daily use of electronic devices, personal time management and thus immediate access to the current time are accepted as a common and essential utility. Various wristwatches with mechanical, quartz, kinetic, and other movements are commonly available and have established clear expectations of dependability.Thus a need exists for an apparatus combining the benefits of the extensive functionality of smart watches with an ability to display time, similar in its dependability to traditional mechanical, quartz, and kinetic timepieces.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONAspects of the present invention address at least the above-mentioned problems and/or disadvantages and provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly, an aspect of the present invention introduces an apparatus combining a smart watch and a conventional watch movement together into a “hybrid smart watch”, to offer the benefits of both.The invention therefore concerns a hybrid wearable device comprising (A) a smart watch with at least a pixel-addressable digital display, a general purpose processor, an instruction and data memory, and a communications component, said “smart watch” component also referred to as “digital subsystem” or “electronic component” from here on, and (B) an alternate (mechanical, quartz, kinetic, or other) watch movement (or, possibly, multiple movements), also referred to from here on as “analog subsystem” or “conventional movement.”A smart watch and an alternate, conventional (mechanical, quartz, kinetic, or other) movement each can have a dedicated power source, such a battery, capacitor, mainspring, mechanical rotor or some other means of storing and releasing energy, from here on is referred to as “energy storage”. The process of adding energy to the energy storage, whether electrical or mechanical, from here on is referred to simply as “charging”.An analog time indicator in the form of a mechanical dial, where passage of time or change in other data, like, for example, power reserve, is indicated by physically moving one element relative to another, or any of the many embodiments known in the timepiece industry (from here on simply referred to as “analog dial” for brevity) is shown to the user. A smart watch pixel-addressable digital display is also shown to the user.The analog dial indicates the time as established by the conventional movement within the hybrid smart watch. The digital display may indicate the time as established by the electronic component of the hybrid smart watch, or it may display the information imparted by various applications that may or may not relate to the time measurement function of the hybrid smart watch.The analog dial and the digital display may be combined to offer enhanced functionality, and multiple analogue dials and digital displays may be combined within a single hybrid smart watch.The electronic component of the hybrid smart watch can be further combined with the conventional movement or movements to facilitate time display such that at times the analog dial displays the time as measured by the electronic components, and/or the digital display shows time as measured by the conventional movement.Elements of the analog dial may be integrated with the electronic component of a hybrid smart watch in such a fashion that the elements of an analog dial may be utilized to indicate information outside of time measurement domain, such as, for example, direction, air quality, radiation levels, available storage capacity, strength of communication signal, or any of the myriad other measurements available to the electronic component of the hybrid smart watch.The electronic component of the hybrid smart watch can be further combined with the conventional movement to provide the benefits of integration, for example, to measure the precision of the conventional movement and sense the time it displays, adjust the conventional movement to display the correct time as indicated by the network services, regulate the subsystems of conventional movement so that they measure time with higher precision, change the time indicated by the conventional movement to adjust to a time zone change, wind up the spring of a mechanical movement (or otherwise charge up the power storage dedicated to a quartz movement) using the electronic component of the hybrid smart watch as the power source.Electronic elements of the hybrid smart watch may control and/or utilize one or several forms of energy harvesting, including, but not limited to any combination of some or all of photovoltaic, piezoelectric, thermoelectric, kinetic, radio, microwave or some other form of energy harvesting. The harvested energy may then be used to wind up or otherwise recharge, drive, or augment the power source of the conventional (mechanical, quartz, kinetic, or other) movement.Other aspects, advantages, and salient features of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description, which, taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings, discloses various embodiments of the present invention.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSThe above and other aspects, features, and benefits of certain embodiments of the present invention will be more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which:FIG. 1illustrates a front view of a hybrid smart watch with a rectangular digital display where the hour and minute hands of the analogue watch dial overlay the digital display.FIG. 2shows a schematic side view of a hybrid smart watch, where the pinions that drive the hour and minute hands protrude through a hole in the digital display.FIG. 3demonstrates a hybrid smart watch with a round face, a digital display in the center, the permanent hour marks outside the digital display, and the hour and minute hands overlaying the digital display.FIG. 4illustrates a hybrid smart watch with a round face, a digital display in the center, the permanent hour marks outside of the display, and the hour and minute hands driven from the periphery of the watch face.FIG. 5shows a hybrid smart watch with a round face, a digital display in the center, the permanent hour marks outside of the display, the hour and minute hands driven from the periphery of the watch face, and a closed aperture hiding the digital display.FIG. 6shows a hybrid smart watch held on a human wrist by a strap, with a crown shaped so that bending the hand towards the watch would push the crown towards the enclosure of the watch, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.FIG. 7shows a sequence diagram illustrating the system for adjusting the time shown by the analogue subsystem of a hybrid smart watch.FIG. 8presents a block diagram of one embodiment of a hybrid smart watch, showing the digital and analogue subsystems and possible interactions among them.FIG. 9depicts a hybrid smart watch with a round face, an analog dial and a digital display, and scheduling information text and icons presented on the digital display at the locations next to the current positions of the analog hands and the time markings on the analog dial, so as to be associated with such by the user.FIG. 10illustrates a hybrid smart watch with a round face, a digital display in the center, permanent analog time marks on the analog dial outside of the display, and the hour and minute hands driven from the periphery of the watch face; with a menu of selections shown on the digital display and positioned next to the current location of the minute hand.FIG. 11illustrates a hybrid smart watch with a round face, a digital display in the center, permanent hour marks outside of the digital display, the hour, minute, and second hands overlaying the digital display, with the second hand temporarily detached from the analog watch mechanism and used to indicate pulse relative to the markings shown on the digital display.DETAILED DESCRIPTIONTechnical ProblemThe ability of a computing device to perform its functions, including the function of displaying time, depends on the availability of electrical power. Wearable devices are, by their nature, usually disconnected from the power grid and thus rely on battery power. Yet the power supplied by the batteries is constrained by the wearable form factor itself—there is only so much one is usually willing to carry on the wrist.One of the biggest consumers of power in a smart watch has been the display, to the point where many smart watches can sustain only a precious few hours of operation with the display constantly switched on. Various methods for constraining the power-consuming uses of smart watches have been implemented, but they all clash with the consumer's desire to enjoy the device in its full functionality.Thus there is a contradiction: smart watches instigate more active use than conventional timepieces, yet once a smart watch is out of power it cannot even tell the time.Similarly, while connected smart watches can automatically adjust their time to match precisely the time and time zone provided by specialized network services, thus significantly exceeding the precision of the mechanical movements that require a manual intervention of the user or a skilled professional to avoid time drift, even perfect precision is moot when a smart watch cannot show the time. Yet the mechanical movements do not lend themselves to an automatic adjustment to network time.OverviewThe following detailed description of the invention is intended to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the invention as defined by the claims and their equivalents. Accordingly, those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various modifications of the embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the current invention. In addition, descriptions of well-known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.These detailed description of the invention are to be regarded as merely exemplary in nature and are not intended to limit the invention or the application and uses of the invention. Furthermore, there is no intention to be bound by any theory presented in the preceding background or the following detailed description.It is to be understood that the singular forms “a,” “an,” and “the” include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to “a communications unit” includes reference to one or more such units.The following various embodiments describe a hybrid smart watch with multiple sources of time, multiple power sources, and multiple time indicator mechanisms.FIG. 8is a block diagram presenting one embodiment of a hybrid smart watch, containing thedigital subsystem810, theanalog watch subsystem820, and thetime adjustment subsystem830and theenergy transfer unit840.Referring toFIG. 8, the digital subsystem may include acontroller811, acommunication unit815with anexternal interface816, adigital display817, atactile feedback system818, aninternal clock812,data storage814, andenergy storage813.Thecontroller811may control general operations of thedigital subsystem810and a signal flow between the components within. More particularly, it may execute various application and system software residing in thedata storage814or elsewhere, perform operations on the system and user data residing in thedata storage814or available over thecommunication unit815, display the data and user interface elements via thedigital display817, read and set theinternal clock812, read the state of theenergy storage813, interact and control thetime interaction subsystem830, and engage theenergy transfer unit840.Thedata storage814may store a program code required for operations according to an embodiment of the present invention, user data, or the like. For example, thestorage unit814may store a program that controls general operations of thedigital subsystem810, applications required for an operating system (OS) booting thedigital subsystem810, interacting over various communications protocols such as IP, Bluetooth, ZigBee, Wi-Fi, LTE, and the like, and additional functions of thedigital subsystem810of the hybrid smart watch, including but not limited to all or any of a camera function, a music playback function, an image display function, a video play function, or the like. More particularly, thestorage unit814may store user preferences regarding the automatic adjustment of the analog subsystem when a time correction is suggested by the digital subsystem, for example when the digital sub-system discovers that the user has entered a different time zone, or when the analog subsystem has been deviating from the expected time by a certain, configurable amount, for example three seconds or more.Thecommunication unit815may form wireless or wired communication channels with other devices and network services. It may have asingle communication interface816or multiple communication interfaces as needed. In fact, multiple, medium-specific communications units might be employed in various embodiments of the present invention. Thecommunication unit815may use a communication technology such as Ethernet, Universal Serial Bus (USB), Bluetooth, infrared communication, Wi-Fi, Wi-Fi Direct, home RF, DLNA, ZigBee, or the like. More particularly, thecommunication unit815may form a communication channel with a network time service employing NTP or a functionally similar protocol, and may thus discover events such as clock drift or time zone change. Such events may trigger thecontroller811to make automatic adjustments, or to communicate the need for such adjustments to the user via thedigital display817, thetactile feedback system818, or some other means.Thedigital display817shows the information and user interface presented by the applications and the operating system executed within the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch, information provided by external devices via thecommunication unit815, or the information generated by various sensors and components of the digital subsystem, as well as the sensors and components interacting with the analog subsystem of the smart watch. For example, thedisplay unit817may provide work areas for various applications such as a weather report, a message reader, a digital timer, a power indicator, a “wondering”, “jumping”, or retrograde indicator, while also showing a dial that would indicate the time when considered in conjunction with theanalog time indicator822, such as the mechanical hour and minute hands as shown inFIG. 1.Thetactile feedback system818drives one or many mechanisms that provide information to the user of the hybrid smart watch via one or more haptic mechanisms. Such mechanisms may be simple like a single-point pressure actuator, or complex, with patterns extended in time and across multiple pressure points. For example, when thecontroller811determines that the time in theinternal clock812deviates from the time as known to theanalog subsystem820of the hybrid smart watch by a certain pre-configured amount, it may alert the user by sending a tactile pattern that would be perceived by the user as an alert requiring a human intervention.Theinternal clock812is an essential component of any electronic system and thus of thedigital subsystem810. The digital subsystem may contain multiple such clocks necessary for the operation of its components. The internal clock does not necessarily have to keep track of the date or the hour, but rather of the passage of time. Thecontroller811may translate the passage of time as indicated by theinternal clock812into the current date and time as perceived by humans. Thecontroller811may request and receive the current time and date from various network services via thecommunications unit815. Once thecontroller811arrives, as a result of a network dialogue viacommunications unit815, at what it perceives to be an accurate current time, it may adjust theinternal clock812, or adjust the formula it uses to translate the time reported by theinternal clock812into the time in human-readable format. Likewise, the time as reported by theinternal clock812or arrived at through a network transaction viacommunications unit815may be used to adjust the time in theanalog subsystem820. Thus an external source can be utilized to adjust either the internal time of the hybrid smart watch, or the time displayed by the hybrid smart watch on its digital or analog dial(s).Theenergy storage813provides electric power to all the components of thedigital subsystem810, as well astime adjustment sub-system830, and may provide power to theenergy transfer unit840as well. Theenergy storage813is charged by anenergy capture unit819, which receives energy from a wired source such as USB power, a power harvesting subsystem, a wireless source such as inductive charging, or the like. Thecontroller811can receive indications of the amount of power stored withinenergy storage813and adjust the behavior of thedigital subsystem810and its components accordingly, as well as alert the user. The power contained within theenergy storage813could be used to charge theenergy storage823of the analog subsystem of the hybrid smart watch. Mechanisms for efficiently and safely regulating and charging small power sources are well-known in the art and will not be enumerated here.Although not illustrated inFIG. 8, thedigital subsystem810may further include optional components for providing additional functions, such as a camera module for photographing an image or a video, a broadcasting reception module for receiving broadcasts, a digital music playback module, and a sensor module for proximity, acceleration, radiation, and other sensing. All the types of components cannot be listed since a variation on the components varies greatly according to a convergence trend of digital devices, and thedigital subsystem810of a hybrid smart watch according to embodiments of the present invention may further include components in a level equal to that of the above listed components.Still referring toFIG. 8, the analog subsystem of a hybrid smart watch may include anenergy storage823, such as a spring, battery, capacitor, fuel cell, or the like, awatch movement821, and atime indicator822such as an analog dial with hour, minute and second hands. When considered alone, on its own merits, and without the rest of the hybrid smart watch, the analog subsystem is similar to a common wristwatch.Thetime indicator822may be any of the known analog time indicators using, for example, separate hands to indicate hours, minutes, seconds, and fractions thereof, or a wondering hour dial, a sun-and-moon dial, a mystery dial, a jumping or retrograde display, or any other mechanical contrivance for showing time. Thetime indicator822may rely on thedigital display817to provide the context for the time it displays, such as digitally displayed hour and minute marks, or the current hour in case of the wondering hour time indicator. Thetime indicator822may include multiple interrelated or independent indicators, showing different times or the same time in different formats, driven by the same movement or by multiple watch movements. The time indicator may also display the date or dates as per various calendars, as well as the time elapsed from a certain moment, or time remaining until a certain moment in the future.The time currently shown by thetime indicator822may be captured by the time indicator sensor831and reported to thecontroller811. The time indicator itself may be adjusted by thetime adjustment mechanism832based on a command from thecontroller811. For example, in one embodiment of the invention, thecontroller811would discover as a result of a transaction with a network time service like GPS, GSM, or LTE that the hybrid smart watch has entered a different time zone, and would command thetime adjustment mechanism832to move the hour and minute hands of the time dial to match the local time. In another embodiment, thecontroller811may command thetime adjustment mechanism832to regulate the conventional mechanism so as to improve precision of the same. In another embodiment, the watch asks the user if they wish to have the time adjusted. For example, some people who travel like to keep the conventional watch indicating their home time.Thewatch movement821, such as mechanical, quartz, kinetic, or some other movement, counts the time and controls the state of thetime indicator822using power from theenergy storage823. A hybrid smart watch may have more than one watch movement, just as it may have more than one time indicator. The watch movement may track the time based on the common 24-hour day scale and the Gregorian calendar, or may track the sidereal time, the solar time, or other times such as measured by various cultural and religious traditions. The watch movement may also use Gregorian, Mayan, or any of the multitudes of other calendars.Theenergy storage823of the analog subsystem of the hybrid smart watch provides power to thewatch movement821. The energy storage may be implemented as a battery or a capacitor for a quartz movement, a spring for a mechanical movement, or the like. It may also be augmented by an energy-harvesting mechanism. In some embodiments of the present invention thecontroller811would be able to command theenergy transfer unit840to transfer some energy fromenergy storage813of the digital subsystem to theenergy storage823of the analogue subsystem. For example, as the hybrid smart watch is charging from an inductive charger, it may also automatically wind up the spring of the mechanical movement driving the analog subsystem of the hybrid smart watch.FIG. 1shows a front view of a hybrid smart watch with a digital display where the hour and minute hands of the analogue watch component overlay the digital display.Turning toFIG. 1, a hybrid smart watch is shown enclosed in acase110with awrist strap150. In this particular embodiment, one of many possible embodiments of the current invention, the hybrid smart watch has a rectangulardigital display120. The rectangular display is depicted showing theweather indicators170and theArabic numerals160marking the hours. The digital display is driven by the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch, while thehour hand130and theminute hand140are driven by the analog subsystem of the hybrid smart watch. Such an embodiment allows for an easy change of the dial, say from Arabic to Roman numerals, for display of information from various software applications, and for display of the time even when the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch has been shut down.FIG. 2shows a cross-section view of an embodiment of the present invention. Thecase210is covered by aprotective lens220and contains both the digital and the analog subsystems of the hybrid smart watch.OnFIG. 2theboard232with a controller, a communications unit, and other digital components, is connected byleads233to thebattery234. Theboard232and the digital components residing on it are also connected byleads231to thedigital display235. In some embodiments all or several digital components may be integrated with the digital display and/or the power source.Further onFIG. 2, thewatch movement246is shown driving thehour hand242andminute hand241via thepinions243with thehour wheel247and thecannon pinion248. Furthermore,FIG. 2shows thestem245and the crown244that can be used to adjust themovement246.ThusFIG. 2provides an illustration of one possible embodiment of the current invention where the pertinent components of the digital and analog subsystems are packaged together to comprise a hybrid smart watch.FIG. 3demonstrates another embodiment of the present invention, a hybrid smart watch in around case320with awrist strap310, adigital display380in the center, ananalog dial330with permanent hour marks outside of the digital display, and thehour hand360,minute hand370andsecond hand350mounted above the digital display. Thecrown340could be used to adjust the hour and minute hands, or even adjust the time perceived by the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch and shown on thedigital display380. Thus in this possible embodiment the analog watch is fully divorced in its representation of time from the digital subsystem, yet the digital subsystem is still intimately integrated within the hybrid smart watch.FIG. 4illustrates a particular embodiment of the present invention, a hybrid smart watch in around enclosure420with awrist strap410, adigital display480in the center, and an analog dial430with permanent hour marks outside of the digital display. Thehour hand440and theminute hand460are driven from the periphery of the watch face with a mechanism possibly similar (although not limited to) the “Mysterious Wall Clock” from U.S. Pat. No. 2,153,004 issued in 1937. Thecrown450could be used to adjust the hour and minute hands, or even adjust the time perceived by the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch and shown on thedigital display480. In this embodiment the analog time indicator does not interfere with the digital display driven by the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch, while comprising an integrated device.FIG. 5shows an advantageous embodiment of the present invention, a hybrid smart watch in around enclosure520with awrist strap510, where the digital display is covered with anaperture580, thus indicating that the display is intentionally switched off. Thehour hand540and theminute hand560are driven from the periphery of the watch face and use the permanent hour marks outside of the display to indicate the time. Thecrown550can be used to control the hybrid smart watch, or can be pushed in to cause the aperture to close and to shut down the digital display, or, subsequently, to open and trigger the switching on of the digital display. When digital display is switched off, the smart watch knows it is not being viewed and thus can go into low power mode. Conversely, when the display is switched on the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch can draw more power to achieve higher performance. As such, this overcomes the design problem of poor performance of the smart watch because of power optimizations to improve overall battery life in the prior art.FIG. 9demonstrates an embodiment of the present invention, a hybrid smart watch in around case910with ananalog dial920, adigital display930, andanalog hands940and990, where time-related information is shown on the digital display at several significant locations. Meetingicons970and980are shown at five o'clock and six o'clock respectively, indicating scheduled activities. In this example theicon980clearly indicates that the six o'clock meeting has been cancelled.FIG. 9also demonstratesinformation950regarding the location of the next upcoming activity and the approximate time necessary to get to the location shown on thedigital display930so that when the minute hand will arrive to the markings, it will be clear to the user that an action is indicated.FIG. 9further shows information shown on thedigital display960next to the current position of theminute hand990. Thus the time-sensitive data is displayed in its time context for the convenience of the user.ThusFIG. 9illustrates various embodiments of the current invention wherein the information on the digital display is shown at significant locations associated with the analog dial and the current position of the analog hands of the hybrid smart watch, thus communicating to the user time-anchored data clearly and succinctly.FIG. 10illustrates a particular embodiment of the present invention, a hybrid smart watch in anenclosure1010with awrist strap410, ananalog dial1020, adigital display1030and the analog hands: thehour hand1060and theminute hand1040. In this particular embodiment, a menu of easily accessible actions is shown next to the current location of the minute hand, so as to be instantly recognizable by the user reading the time.Another embodiment taking advantage of the hybrid nature of the smart watch presented in the current invention is depicted inFIG. 11. Here a hybridsmart watch1110is shown with ananalog dial1120, adigital display1130, and the analog hands: thehour hand1150, theminute hand1160, and thesecond hand1140. Thesecond hand1140is shown temporarily detached from the analog subsystem, so that instead of indicating the passage of time, it is controlled by the digital subsystem to indicate pulse, relative to thescale1180shown on the digital display, where the function of the scale is further indicated by thelabel1170shown on the digital display. Thus an inherently analog component of a hybrid smart watch can be coupled with the digital subsystem to implement a clearer, less distracting, user interface.FIG. 6illustrates an embodiment of the current invention where a hybridsmart watch630is attached to awrist610by awrist strap640. The crown of the watch is given a shape such that when the hand is bent backward, as depicted inFIG. 6, it would push in thecrown620. Such a crown could be used, for example, to trigger the opening/closing of an aperture depicted inFIG. 5and the switching on and off of the digital display without the need to engage another hand or some other triggering mechanism.FIG. 7is a sequence diagram illustrating a system for adjusting the time shown by the analogue subsystem of a hybrid smart watch.Turning toFIG. 7, thecontroller701of the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch issues therequest710to thecommunications unit702. Thecommunications unit702initiates the pertinent network protocol and requests thecurrent network time711from thenetwork time source706. Common examples of a network time source are Network Time Protocol servers like pool.ntp.org, or GPS and cellular networks. In some systems a network time source, like NIST radio station or Global Positioning System satellites, broadcast current time continuously, thus making the step of requesting network time unnecessary. Once thenetwork time source706sends thecurrent network time712to thecommunications unit702, thecommunications unit702returns thenetwork time713to thecontroller701.Having received thenetwork time713, thecontroller701reads the watch time, as displayed by the time indicator, from thetime indicator sensor703. When theindicator sensor703reportscurrent watch time715to thecontroller701, thecontroller701compares it to the network time received earlier and makes adecision716whether there is a need to adjust the watch time.If time adjustment is indicated, thecontroller701raises the request717to theuser705asking for permission to adjust the watch. In various embodiments of the present invention such a request could be issued via a digital display, a dedicated indicator, a sound, a haptic subsystem or by some other means. Once theuser705issues the permission718to adjust the watch, thecontroller701sends the command719to adjust the watch to theactuator704. Theactuator704would then physically affect the analog time indicator to adjust the time displayed.CONCLUSIONWhile this invention has been described in conjunction with the specific embodiments outlined above, it is evident that many alternatives, modifications, and variations will be apparent to those ordinarily skilled in the art. Accordingly, the preferred embodiments of the invention as set forth above are intended to be illustrative, not limiting. Various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the inventions as defined in the following claims.

The present invention generally relates to the field of wearable devices, more particularly to the apparatus commonly referred to as “smart watches”, as well as to other wearable timepieces, as well as the methods of combining such devices together.

Smart watches, also often referred to as “smartwatches”, are portable electronic devices, worn like a wristwatch, or like a fashion accessory on a strap, or a belt, or some other fashion or jewelry contrivance. Smart watches are essentially small computers, as they include a processor, some memory, a display, a communication component, an ability to accept user input, and an ability to download and execute a variety of application software.

Like all electronic devices, smart watches depend for their functioning on having a built-in source of time, which enables them to perform the key function of a conventional timepiece: display the current time.

The ability of a smart watch to display the time is commonly seen as a cornerstone function of the device. A smart watch that does not function as a watch is usually seen as showing an unacceptable regression of its most basic function. Such device cannot be classified as a smart watch and would have to compete for space on the wrist of the user against a conventional watch that actually shows time and belongs on the wrist by custom and tradition.

In many human cultures, particularly the ones relying on the daily use of electronic devices, personal time management and thus immediate access to the current time are accepted as a common and essential utility. Various wristwatches with mechanical, quartz, kinetic, and other movements are commonly available and have established clear expectations of dependability.

Thus a need exists for an apparatus combining the benefits of the extensive functionality of smart watches with an ability to display time, similar in its dependability to traditional mechanical, quartz, and kinetic timepieces.

Aspects of the present invention address at least the above-mentioned problems and/or disadvantages and provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly, an aspect of the present invention introduces an apparatus combining a smart watch and a conventional watch movement together into a “hybrid smart watch”, to offer the benefits of both.

The invention therefore concerns a hybrid wearable device comprising (A) a smart watch with at least a pixel-addressable digital display, a general purpose processor, an instruction and data memory, and a communications component, said “smart watch” component also referred to as “digital subsystem” or “electronic component” from here on, and (B) an alternate (mechanical, quartz, kinetic, or other) watch movement (or, possibly, multiple movements), also referred to from here on as “analog subsystem” or “conventional movement.”

A smart watch and an alternate, conventional (mechanical, quartz, kinetic, or other) movement each can have a dedicated power source, such a battery, capacitor, mainspring, mechanical rotor or some other means of storing and releasing energy, from here on is referred to as “energy storage”. The process of adding energy to the energy storage, whether electrical or mechanical, from here on is referred to simply as “charging”.

An analog time indicator in the form of a mechanical dial, where passage of time or change in other data, like, for example, power reserve, is indicated by physically moving one element relative to another, or any of the many embodiments known in the timepiece industry (from here on simply referred to as “analog dial” for brevity) is shown to the user. A smart watch pixel-addressable digital display is also shown to the user.

The analog dial indicates the time as established by the conventional movement within the hybrid smart watch. The digital display may indicate the time as established by the electronic component of the hybrid smart watch, or it may display the information imparted by various applications that may or may not relate to the time measurement function of the hybrid smart watch.

The analog dial and the digital display may be combined to offer enhanced functionality, and multiple analogue dials and digital displays may be combined within a single hybrid smart watch.

The electronic component of the hybrid smart watch can be further combined with the conventional movement or movements to facilitate time display such that at times the analog dial displays the time as measured by the electronic components, and/or the digital display shows time as measured by the conventional movement.

Elements of the analog dial may be integrated with the electronic component of a hybrid smart watch in such a fashion that the elements of an analog dial may be utilized to indicate information outside of time measurement domain, such as, for example, direction, air quality, radiation levels, available storage capacity, strength of communication signal, or any of the myriad other measurements available to the electronic component of the hybrid smart watch.

The electronic component of the hybrid smart watch can be further combined with the conventional movement to provide the benefits of integration, for example, to measure the precision of the conventional movement and sense the time it displays, adjust the conventional movement to display the correct time as indicated by the network services, regulate the subsystems of conventional movement so that they measure time with higher precision, change the time indicated by the conventional movement to adjust to a time zone change, wind up the spring of a mechanical movement (or otherwise charge up the power storage dedicated to a quartz movement) using the electronic component of the hybrid smart watch as the power source.

Electronic elements of the hybrid smart watch may control and/or utilize one or several forms of energy harvesting, including, but not limited to any combination of some or all of photovoltaic, piezoelectric, thermoelectric, kinetic, radio, microwave or some other form of energy harvesting. The harvested energy may then be used to wind up or otherwise recharge, drive, or augment the power source of the conventional (mechanical, quartz, kinetic, or other) movement.

Other aspects, advantages, and salient features of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description, which, taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings, discloses various embodiments of the present invention.

The above and other aspects, features, and benefits of certain embodiments of the present invention will be more apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which:

FIG. 1illustrates a front view of a hybrid smart watch with a rectangular digital display where the hour and minute hands of the analogue watch dial overlay the digital display.

FIG. 2shows a schematic side view of a hybrid smart watch, where the pinions that drive the hour and minute hands protrude through a hole in the digital display.

FIG. 3demonstrates a hybrid smart watch with a round face, a digital display in the center, the permanent hour marks outside the digital display, and the hour and minute hands overlaying the digital display.

FIG. 4illustrates a hybrid smart watch with a round face, a digital display in the center, the permanent hour marks outside of the display, and the hour and minute hands driven from the periphery of the watch face.

FIG. 5shows a hybrid smart watch with a round face, a digital display in the center, the permanent hour marks outside of the display, the hour and minute hands driven from the periphery of the watch face, and a closed aperture hiding the digital display.

FIG. 6shows a hybrid smart watch held on a human wrist by a strap, with a crown shaped so that bending the hand towards the watch would push the crown towards the enclosure of the watch, in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

FIG. 7shows a sequence diagram illustrating the system for adjusting the time shown by the analogue subsystem of a hybrid smart watch.

FIG. 8presents a block diagram of one embodiment of a hybrid smart watch, showing the digital and analogue subsystems and possible interactions among them.

FIG. 9depicts a hybrid smart watch with a round face, an analog dial and a digital display, and scheduling information text and icons presented on the digital display at the locations next to the current positions of the analog hands and the time markings on the analog dial, so as to be associated with such by the user.

FIG. 10illustrates a hybrid smart watch with a round face, a digital display in the center, permanent analog time marks on the analog dial outside of the display, and the hour and minute hands driven from the periphery of the watch face; with a menu of selections shown on the digital display and positioned next to the current location of the minute hand.

FIG. 11illustrates a hybrid smart watch with a round face, a digital display in the center, permanent hour marks outside of the digital display, the hour, minute, and second hands overlaying the digital display, with the second hand temporarily detached from the analog watch mechanism and used to indicate pulse relative to the markings shown on the digital display.

Technical Problem

The ability of a computing device to perform its functions, including the function of displaying time, depends on the availability of electrical power. Wearable devices are, by their nature, usually disconnected from the power grid and thus rely on battery power. Yet the power supplied by the batteries is constrained by the wearable form factor itself—there is only so much one is usually willing to carry on the wrist.

One of the biggest consumers of power in a smart watch has been the display, to the point where many smart watches can sustain only a precious few hours of operation with the display constantly switched on. Various methods for constraining the power-consuming uses of smart watches have been implemented, but they all clash with the consumer's desire to enjoy the device in its full functionality.

Thus there is a contradiction: smart watches instigate more active use than conventional timepieces, yet once a smart watch is out of power it cannot even tell the time.

Similarly, while connected smart watches can automatically adjust their time to match precisely the time and time zone provided by specialized network services, thus significantly exceeding the precision of the mechanical movements that require a manual intervention of the user or a skilled professional to avoid time drift, even perfect precision is moot when a smart watch cannot show the time. Yet the mechanical movements do not lend themselves to an automatic adjustment to network time.

Overview

The following detailed description of the invention is intended to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the invention as defined by the claims and their equivalents. Accordingly, those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various modifications of the embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the current invention. In addition, descriptions of well-known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

These detailed description of the invention are to be regarded as merely exemplary in nature and are not intended to limit the invention or the application and uses of the invention. Furthermore, there is no intention to be bound by any theory presented in the preceding background or the following detailed description.

It is to be understood that the singular forms “a,” “an,” and “the” include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to “a communications unit” includes reference to one or more such units.

The following various embodiments describe a hybrid smart watch with multiple sources of time, multiple power sources, and multiple time indicator mechanisms.

FIG. 8is a block diagram presenting one embodiment of a hybrid smart watch, containing thedigital subsystem810, theanalog watch subsystem820, and thetime adjustment subsystem830and theenergy transfer unit840.

Referring toFIG. 8, the digital subsystem may include acontroller811, acommunication unit815with anexternal interface816, adigital display817, atactile feedback system818, aninternal clock812,data storage814, andenergy storage813.

Thecontroller811may control general operations of thedigital subsystem810and a signal flow between the components within. More particularly, it may execute various application and system software residing in thedata storage814or elsewhere, perform operations on the system and user data residing in thedata storage814or available over thecommunication unit815, display the data and user interface elements via thedigital display817, read and set theinternal clock812, read the state of theenergy storage813, interact and control thetime interaction subsystem830, and engage theenergy transfer unit840.

Thedata storage814may store a program code required for operations according to an embodiment of the present invention, user data, or the like. For example, thestorage unit814may store a program that controls general operations of thedigital subsystem810, applications required for an operating system (OS) booting thedigital subsystem810, interacting over various communications protocols such as IP, Bluetooth, ZigBee, Wi-Fi, LTE, and the like, and additional functions of thedigital subsystem810of the hybrid smart watch, including but not limited to all or any of a camera function, a music playback function, an image display function, a video play function, or the like. More particularly, thestorage unit814may store user preferences regarding the automatic adjustment of the analog subsystem when a time correction is suggested by the digital subsystem, for example when the digital sub-system discovers that the user has entered a different time zone, or when the analog subsystem has been deviating from the expected time by a certain, configurable amount, for example three seconds or more.

Thecommunication unit815may form wireless or wired communication channels with other devices and network services. It may have asingle communication interface816or multiple communication interfaces as needed. In fact, multiple, medium-specific communications units might be employed in various embodiments of the present invention. Thecommunication unit815may use a communication technology such as Ethernet, Universal Serial Bus (USB), Bluetooth, infrared communication, Wi-Fi, Wi-Fi Direct, home RF, DLNA, ZigBee, or the like. More particularly, thecommunication unit815may form a communication channel with a network time service employing NTP or a functionally similar protocol, and may thus discover events such as clock drift or time zone change. Such events may trigger thecontroller811to make automatic adjustments, or to communicate the need for such adjustments to the user via thedigital display817, thetactile feedback system818, or some other means.

Thedigital display817shows the information and user interface presented by the applications and the operating system executed within the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch, information provided by external devices via thecommunication unit815, or the information generated by various sensors and components of the digital subsystem, as well as the sensors and components interacting with the analog subsystem of the smart watch. For example, thedisplay unit817may provide work areas for various applications such as a weather report, a message reader, a digital timer, a power indicator, a “wondering”, “jumping”, or retrograde indicator, while also showing a dial that would indicate the time when considered in conjunction with theanalog time indicator822, such as the mechanical hour and minute hands as shown inFIG. 1.

Thetactile feedback system818drives one or many mechanisms that provide information to the user of the hybrid smart watch via one or more haptic mechanisms. Such mechanisms may be simple like a single-point pressure actuator, or complex, with patterns extended in time and across multiple pressure points. For example, when thecontroller811determines that the time in theinternal clock812deviates from the time as known to theanalog subsystem820of the hybrid smart watch by a certain pre-configured amount, it may alert the user by sending a tactile pattern that would be perceived by the user as an alert requiring a human intervention.

Theinternal clock812is an essential component of any electronic system and thus of thedigital subsystem810. The digital subsystem may contain multiple such clocks necessary for the operation of its components. The internal clock does not necessarily have to keep track of the date or the hour, but rather of the passage of time. Thecontroller811may translate the passage of time as indicated by theinternal clock812into the current date and time as perceived by humans. Thecontroller811may request and receive the current time and date from various network services via thecommunications unit815. Once thecontroller811arrives, as a result of a network dialogue viacommunications unit815, at what it perceives to be an accurate current time, it may adjust theinternal clock812, or adjust the formula it uses to translate the time reported by theinternal clock812into the time in human-readable format. Likewise, the time as reported by theinternal clock812or arrived at through a network transaction viacommunications unit815may be used to adjust the time in theanalog subsystem820. Thus an external source can be utilized to adjust either the internal time of the hybrid smart watch, or the time displayed by the hybrid smart watch on its digital or analog dial(s).

Theenergy storage813provides electric power to all the components of thedigital subsystem810, as well astime adjustment sub-system830, and may provide power to theenergy transfer unit840as well. Theenergy storage813is charged by anenergy capture unit819, which receives energy from a wired source such as USB power, a power harvesting subsystem, a wireless source such as inductive charging, or the like. Thecontroller811can receive indications of the amount of power stored withinenergy storage813and adjust the behavior of thedigital subsystem810and its components accordingly, as well as alert the user. The power contained within theenergy storage813could be used to charge theenergy storage823of the analog subsystem of the hybrid smart watch. Mechanisms for efficiently and safely regulating and charging small power sources are well-known in the art and will not be enumerated here.

Although not illustrated inFIG. 8, thedigital subsystem810may further include optional components for providing additional functions, such as a camera module for photographing an image or a video, a broadcasting reception module for receiving broadcasts, a digital music playback module, and a sensor module for proximity, acceleration, radiation, and other sensing. All the types of components cannot be listed since a variation on the components varies greatly according to a convergence trend of digital devices, and thedigital subsystem810of a hybrid smart watch according to embodiments of the present invention may further include components in a level equal to that of the above listed components.

Still referring toFIG. 8, the analog subsystem of a hybrid smart watch may include anenergy storage823, such as a spring, battery, capacitor, fuel cell, or the like, awatch movement821, and atime indicator822such as an analog dial with hour, minute and second hands. When considered alone, on its own merits, and without the rest of the hybrid smart watch, the analog subsystem is similar to a common wristwatch.

Thetime indicator822may be any of the known analog time indicators using, for example, separate hands to indicate hours, minutes, seconds, and fractions thereof, or a wondering hour dial, a sun-and-moon dial, a mystery dial, a jumping or retrograde display, or any other mechanical contrivance for showing time. Thetime indicator822may rely on thedigital display817to provide the context for the time it displays, such as digitally displayed hour and minute marks, or the current hour in case of the wondering hour time indicator. Thetime indicator822may include multiple interrelated or independent indicators, showing different times or the same time in different formats, driven by the same movement or by multiple watch movements. The time indicator may also display the date or dates as per various calendars, as well as the time elapsed from a certain moment, or time remaining until a certain moment in the future.

The time currently shown by thetime indicator822may be captured by the time indicator sensor831and reported to thecontroller811. The time indicator itself may be adjusted by thetime adjustment mechanism832based on a command from thecontroller811. For example, in one embodiment of the invention, thecontroller811would discover as a result of a transaction with a network time service like GPS, GSM, or LTE that the hybrid smart watch has entered a different time zone, and would command thetime adjustment mechanism832to move the hour and minute hands of the time dial to match the local time. In another embodiment, thecontroller811may command thetime adjustment mechanism832to regulate the conventional mechanism so as to improve precision of the same. In another embodiment, the watch asks the user if they wish to have the time adjusted. For example, some people who travel like to keep the conventional watch indicating their home time.

Thewatch movement821, such as mechanical, quartz, kinetic, or some other movement, counts the time and controls the state of thetime indicator822using power from theenergy storage823. A hybrid smart watch may have more than one watch movement, just as it may have more than one time indicator. The watch movement may track the time based on the common 24-hour day scale and the Gregorian calendar, or may track the sidereal time, the solar time, or other times such as measured by various cultural and religious traditions. The watch movement may also use Gregorian, Mayan, or any of the multitudes of other calendars.

Theenergy storage823of the analog subsystem of the hybrid smart watch provides power to thewatch movement821. The energy storage may be implemented as a battery or a capacitor for a quartz movement, a spring for a mechanical movement, or the like. It may also be augmented by an energy-harvesting mechanism. In some embodiments of the present invention thecontroller811would be able to command theenergy transfer unit840to transfer some energy fromenergy storage813of the digital subsystem to theenergy storage823of the analogue subsystem. For example, as the hybrid smart watch is charging from an inductive charger, it may also automatically wind up the spring of the mechanical movement driving the analog subsystem of the hybrid smart watch.

FIG. 1shows a front view of a hybrid smart watch with a digital display where the hour and minute hands of the analogue watch component overlay the digital display.

Turning toFIG. 1, a hybrid smart watch is shown enclosed in acase110with awrist strap150. In this particular embodiment, one of many possible embodiments of the current invention, the hybrid smart watch has a rectangulardigital display120. The rectangular display is depicted showing theweather indicators170and theArabic numerals160marking the hours. The digital display is driven by the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch, while thehour hand130and theminute hand140are driven by the analog subsystem of the hybrid smart watch. Such an embodiment allows for an easy change of the dial, say from Arabic to Roman numerals, for display of information from various software applications, and for display of the time even when the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch has been shut down.

FIG. 2shows a cross-section view of an embodiment of the present invention. Thecase210is covered by aprotective lens220and contains both the digital and the analog subsystems of the hybrid smart watch.

OnFIG. 2theboard232with a controller, a communications unit, and other digital components, is connected byleads233to thebattery234. Theboard232and the digital components residing on it are also connected byleads231to thedigital display235. In some embodiments all or several digital components may be integrated with the digital display and/or the power source.

Further onFIG. 2, thewatch movement246is shown driving thehour hand242andminute hand241via thepinions243with thehour wheel247and thecannon pinion248. Furthermore,FIG. 2shows thestem245and the crown244that can be used to adjust themovement246.

ThusFIG. 2provides an illustration of one possible embodiment of the current invention where the pertinent components of the digital and analog subsystems are packaged together to comprise a hybrid smart watch.

FIG. 3demonstrates another embodiment of the present invention, a hybrid smart watch in around case320with awrist strap310, adigital display380in the center, ananalog dial330with permanent hour marks outside of the digital display, and thehour hand360,minute hand370andsecond hand350mounted above the digital display. Thecrown340could be used to adjust the hour and minute hands, or even adjust the time perceived by the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch and shown on thedigital display380. Thus in this possible embodiment the analog watch is fully divorced in its representation of time from the digital subsystem, yet the digital subsystem is still intimately integrated within the hybrid smart watch.

FIG. 4illustrates a particular embodiment of the present invention, a hybrid smart watch in around enclosure420with awrist strap410, adigital display480in the center, and an analog dial430with permanent hour marks outside of the digital display. Thehour hand440and theminute hand460are driven from the periphery of the watch face with a mechanism possibly similar (although not limited to) the “Mysterious Wall Clock” from U.S. Pat. No. 2,153,004 issued in 1937. Thecrown450could be used to adjust the hour and minute hands, or even adjust the time perceived by the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch and shown on thedigital display480. In this embodiment the analog time indicator does not interfere with the digital display driven by the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch, while comprising an integrated device.

FIG. 5shows an advantageous embodiment of the present invention, a hybrid smart watch in around enclosure520with awrist strap510, where the digital display is covered with anaperture580, thus indicating that the display is intentionally switched off. Thehour hand540and theminute hand560are driven from the periphery of the watch face and use the permanent hour marks outside of the display to indicate the time. Thecrown550can be used to control the hybrid smart watch, or can be pushed in to cause the aperture to close and to shut down the digital display, or, subsequently, to open and trigger the switching on of the digital display. When digital display is switched off, the smart watch knows it is not being viewed and thus can go into low power mode. Conversely, when the display is switched on the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch can draw more power to achieve higher performance. As such, this overcomes the design problem of poor performance of the smart watch because of power optimizations to improve overall battery life in the prior art.

FIG. 9demonstrates an embodiment of the present invention, a hybrid smart watch in around case910with ananalog dial920, adigital display930, andanalog hands940and990, where time-related information is shown on the digital display at several significant locations. Meetingicons970and980are shown at five o'clock and six o'clock respectively, indicating scheduled activities. In this example theicon980clearly indicates that the six o'clock meeting has been cancelled.

FIG. 9also demonstratesinformation950regarding the location of the next upcoming activity and the approximate time necessary to get to the location shown on thedigital display930so that when the minute hand will arrive to the markings, it will be clear to the user that an action is indicated.

FIG. 9further shows information shown on thedigital display960next to the current position of theminute hand990. Thus the time-sensitive data is displayed in its time context for the convenience of the user.

ThusFIG. 9illustrates various embodiments of the current invention wherein the information on the digital display is shown at significant locations associated with the analog dial and the current position of the analog hands of the hybrid smart watch, thus communicating to the user time-anchored data clearly and succinctly.

FIG. 10illustrates a particular embodiment of the present invention, a hybrid smart watch in anenclosure1010with awrist strap410, ananalog dial1020, adigital display1030and the analog hands: thehour hand1060and theminute hand1040. In this particular embodiment, a menu of easily accessible actions is shown next to the current location of the minute hand, so as to be instantly recognizable by the user reading the time.

Another embodiment taking advantage of the hybrid nature of the smart watch presented in the current invention is depicted inFIG. 11. Here a hybridsmart watch1110is shown with ananalog dial1120, adigital display1130, and the analog hands: thehour hand1150, theminute hand1160, and thesecond hand1140. Thesecond hand1140is shown temporarily detached from the analog subsystem, so that instead of indicating the passage of time, it is controlled by the digital subsystem to indicate pulse, relative to thescale1180shown on the digital display, where the function of the scale is further indicated by thelabel1170shown on the digital display. Thus an inherently analog component of a hybrid smart watch can be coupled with the digital subsystem to implement a clearer, less distracting, user interface.

FIG. 6illustrates an embodiment of the current invention where a hybridsmart watch630is attached to awrist610by awrist strap640. The crown of the watch is given a shape such that when the hand is bent backward, as depicted inFIG. 6, it would push in thecrown620. Such a crown could be used, for example, to trigger the opening/closing of an aperture depicted inFIG. 5and the switching on and off of the digital display without the need to engage another hand or some other triggering mechanism.

FIG. 7is a sequence diagram illustrating a system for adjusting the time shown by the analogue subsystem of a hybrid smart watch.

Turning toFIG. 7, thecontroller701of the digital subsystem of the hybrid smart watch issues therequest710to thecommunications unit702. Thecommunications unit702initiates the pertinent network protocol and requests thecurrent network time711from thenetwork time source706. Common examples of a network time source are Network Time Protocol servers like pool.ntp.org, or GPS and cellular networks. In some systems a network time source, like NIST radio station or Global Positioning System satellites, broadcast current time continuously, thus making the step of requesting network time unnecessary. Once thenetwork time source706sends thecurrent network time712to thecommunications unit702, thecommunications unit702returns thenetwork time713to thecontroller701.

Having received thenetwork time713, thecontroller701reads the watch time, as displayed by the time indicator, from thetime indicator sensor703. When theindicator sensor703reportscurrent watch time715to thecontroller701, thecontroller701compares it to the network time received earlier and makes adecision716whether there is a need to adjust the watch time.

If time adjustment is indicated, thecontroller701raises the request717to theuser705asking for permission to adjust the watch. In various embodiments of the present invention such a request could be issued via a digital display, a dedicated indicator, a sound, a haptic subsystem or by some other means. Once theuser705issues the permission718to adjust the watch, thecontroller701sends the command719to adjust the watch to theactuator704. Theactuator704would then physically affect the analog time indicator to adjust the time displayed.

While this invention has been described in conjunction with the specific embodiments outlined above, it is evident that many alternatives, modifications, and variations will be apparent to those ordinarily skilled in the art. Accordingly, the preferred embodiments of the invention as set forth above are intended to be illustrative, not limiting. Various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the inventions as defined in the following claims.