DESCRIPTION:
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONThis application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 16/943,401 filed Jul. 30, 2020, which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 15/949,026 filed Aug. 9, 2018, now U.S. Pat. No. 10,730,584, which is a Continuation-in-Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/850,738 filed Sep. 10, 2015, which is related and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62/048,834 filed Sep. 11, 2014, each of which is assigned to the same assignee with the same inventors, and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates generally to devices used to train children to properly learn how to balance and control a two wheeled vehicle such as a bicycle or a motorcycle. Secondarily, the invention relates to devices for training children how to use a throttle and brake to control a motor driven vehicle such as a small motorcycle. The invention allows for the growth of the child's skills from initial balance, to the more complex task of combining balance, throttle control, and braking, enabled by a lightweight form, low seat height and narrow foot platform.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis section describes the background art of the disclosed embodiments of the present invention. There is no intention, either express or implied, that the background art discussed in this section legally constitutes prior art.There have been a number of recent advancements in the techniques and devices to use to teach children how to ride a bicycle. One example has been the use of a balance bike, also called a running bike, similar to that referenced in U.S. Patent Publication No. US2010/0052287 to Mcfarland (“McFarland”). The McFarland vehicle is primarily a bicycle with a low seat height, but does not include pedals or cranks to propel the vehicle. This arrangement allows for a child to use the child's feet and legs to propel and balance the bike by walking or running, until the skill level of the user increases and the child can push and coast the bike.Further reference may be made to the following patents; U.S. Pat. No. 8,414,007; U.S. Patent Publication No. US2014/0077470; and U.S. Pat. No. 8,794,654.While this concept has been great at teaching very young children how to balance, the youngest age groups still lack the ability, strength and dexterity to advance to riding a standard bicycle with pedals and cranks. Thus, actually pedaling the bicycle becomes the next skill that needs to be conquered. During this transition from running bike to bicycle, often parents must simply wait for the child's motor skills to develop to the point where the child can keep their feet on the pedals while pedaling in a circular motion.In addition to learning the basic skill of balancing on two wheels, for motorcycle riding, a child must learn the basic throttle control system through the use of twisting the throttle on the handlebar. This technique is difficult to teach, and somewhat dangerous if there is not constant adult supervision. There have been previous attempts to aid children by putting training wheels on small motorcycles, which can allow training of some balancing skills to be separated from throttle control skills. While this technique may reduce anxiety and allow earlier development, training wheels still fail to provide a completely realistic training tool for learning balance and throttle control. Further, the weight and size of the bike are concerns for smaller and younger children. Another potential problem occurs when a motorcycle may be ridden too fast before the child has a chance to acquire the skills needed to modulate the throttle, thus becoming more dangerous than necessary.Another problem arises when attempting to provide a vehicle that has a low enough seat height so that a small child can straddle the vehicle or sit on the seat and still keep both feet on the ground. For bicycles, this problem arises because of the space required to provide the pedals and gears, while for motorcycles, the problem relates to providing a relatively large engine and other components. As a result, for both bicycles and motorcycles, the seat height must be raised to accommodate these components, thus resulting in seat heights that are too high for a child to keep both feet on the ground.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSIn order to better understand the invention and to see how the same may be carried out in practice, non-limiting preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:FIG.1shows a perspective view of a convertible running bike in a non-motorized configuration, which is constructed according to an embodiment;FIG.2is a top view of the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration) ofFIG.1;FIG.3is a side view of the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration) ofFIG.1;FIG.4is another side view of the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration) ofFIG.1;FIG.5is an exploded, perspective view of the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration) ofFIG.1;FIG.6shows a perspective view of the convertible running bike ofFIG.1in a motorized configuration;FIG.7is a top view of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.6;FIG.8is a side view of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.6;FIG.9is another side view of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.6;FIG.10is an exploded perspective view of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.6;FIG.11shows a perspective view of an embodiment of a mainframe assembly of the convertible running bike ofFIGS.1and6;FIG.12shows a perspective pictorial view of various components that are installed on the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration) ofFIG.1to the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.6;FIG.13shows a block diagram of electrical components for the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.6;FIG.14shows a perspective view of another embodiment of a mainframe assembly of the convertible running bike;FIG.15shows an exploded perspective view of the various mainframe assembly components ofFIG.14;FIG.16shows a perspective view of another embodiment of a mainframe assembly of the convertible running bike;FIG.17shows an exploded perspective view of the various mainframe assembly components ofFIG.16;FIG.18is a side view of a convertible running bike (motorized configuration) including the mainframe assembly ofFIGS.14and15, and an electronic control/battery mount assembly according to an embodiment;FIG.19is a close-up partial side view of a section of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.18;FIG.20is a top view of the electronic control/battery mount assembly ofFIGS.14and15according to an embodiment;FIG.21is a bottom view of the electronic control/battery mount assembly ofFIGS.14and15according to an embodiment;FIG.22is an exploded view of the electronic control/battery mount assembly ofFIGS.14and15according to an embodiment;FIG.23(a)andFIG.23(b)show perspective views of another convertible running bike in a motorized configuration including a sound system, which is constructed according to an embodiment;FIG.24is a front view of the convertible running bike ofFIG.23;FIG.25is a side view of the convertible running bike ofFIG.23;FIG.26(a)andFIG.26(b)show perspective views of the convertible running bike ofFIG.23including a clutch, which is constructed according to an embodiment;FIG.27(a)andFIG.27(b)shows perspective views of the convertible running bike ofFIG.23including a footrest, which is constructed according to an embodiment;FIG.28is a side view of the convertible running bike ofFIG.27; andFIG.29is a top view of the convertible running bike ofFIG.27.DETAILED DESCRIPTIONCertain embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which some, but not all, embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed, these embodiments of the invention may be in many different forms and thus the invention should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein; rather, these embodiments are provided as illustrative examples only so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.It will be readily understood that the components of the embodiments as generally described and illustrated in the drawings herein, could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus, the following more detailed description of the certain ones of the embodiments of the system, components and method of the present invention, as represented in the drawings, is not intended to limit the scope of the invention, as claimed, but is merely representative of the embodiment of the invention.Therefore, the present invention provides a convertible running bike with a small, electronically controlled motor in order to solve training problems found in conventional solutions. As with the logic of a simple running bike, the convertible running bike allows a child to learn to use their feet and legs to balance, propel and stop before having to learn to drive the feet in a circular pedaling motion, without being able to easily touch the ground while sitting on the seat. Further, the motorized running bike of the present invention provides a controlled way for a child to propel the bike using their hand on a throttle in a similar manner used with motorcycles. The learning process for the convertible running bike may be controlled and adapted to each child's ability by an adult. This process can be further controlled by features included in the electronic capability such as maximum rates of speed. Because a child will remain interested with these new functions, the child can enjoy the motorized running bike without becoming frustrated with the complex task of driving their legs in a circular motion before they are physically capable.The convertible motorized running bike of the present invention is designed to be both a toy, and also a training device for both a bicycle and motorcycle. The invention has a frame that acts in a similar function to one of today's current balance bikes, with no crank set or pedals, and has a slender profile that aids with walking/balancing leg movements. In this configuration, the frame is lightweight so that a young child can have confidence in handling, controlling and lifting the bike.Once a child has mastered the basics and is able to coast, turn, and slow down for obstacles, the frame may be fitted with a motorized propulsion system. The frame is adapted to support the addition of the motorized system components, so that the motorized version of the present invention may be controlled in manners similar to an ATV or motorcycle. The motor may be easily attached to the frame in a prefabricated motor location, and a chain may then be installed to provide propulsion to the rear wheel. The motorized version may be controlled with either a thumb throttle or twist throttle. In various embodiments, the motor is an electrical type motor that may be modulated and controlled via the throttle by the rider. In other embodiments, the motor speed and bike acceleration may be preset by an adult through a smart device application, a wireless transmitter, or a directly connected cable, mechanism or programmable key to provide an extra level of safety for the child until they acquire the appropriate skill level to control the vehicle.As a result, a child will be able to more easily learn the mechanics and skills of motorcycle riding on a lightweight vehicle, instead of heavier and more powerful vehicle, such as a gas powered motorcycle. By having the ability to continue learning motorcycle riding skills after learning balance skills, a child can maintain fun and interest during the time period before they begin to develop the leg skill to pedal a normal bicycle. In addition, a child can gain a tremendous amount of throttle control skill and vehicle awareness before they begin to ride a heavier and faster motorcycle.In other embodiments, the convertible running bike may have the motorized components installed and in place, but not used, thus allowing a child to learn to balance the slightly heavier bike before activating the motorized system to provide propulsion to the bike.A convertible running bike capable of selectively converting from a non-motorized configuration to a motorized configuration may include a front fork rotatably engaged with a front wheel, a handle bar rotatably engaged with the front fork for steering the bike, a frame and a seat connected to the frame. The frame may include a down tube portion connected to the front fork, a rear fork rotatably engaged with a rear wheel, a drivetrain receiving region for selectively receiving a drivetrain assembly, and a battery mount for selectively receiving a battery.The convertible running bike may also include a drivetrain assembly disposed within the drivetrain receiving region and having a first sprocket, an electronic controller disposed within an electronic control housing receiving region and coupled to the drivetrain assembly, a battery disposed within the battery mount, a throttle sensor coupled to the electronic controller, a second sprocket connected to the rear wheel, a chain connected to the first sprocket and the second sprocket. In response to an input to the throttle sensor, the electronic controller causes the drivetrain assembly to rotate the first sprocket, the first sprocket driving the chain, and the chain rotating the second sprocket and the rear wheel and the convertible running bike operates in the motorized configuration.In an embodiment, the bike may include a footrest. The drivetrain assembly may include a brush motor or a brushless motor. The frame may include a left portion and a right portion.In another embodiment, a running bike capable of selectively converting from a non-motorized configuration to a motorized configuration may include a front fork rotatably engaged with a front wheel, a handle bar rotatably engaged with the front fork for steering the bike, a frame and a seat connected to the frame. The frame may include a down tube portion connected to the front fork, a rear fork rotatably engaged with a rear wheel, a drivetrain receiving region for selectively receiving a drivetrain assembly, a battery mount for selectively receiving a battery, such that the convertible running bike operates in the non-motorized configuration. In an embodiment, the bike may include a footrest. The frame may include a left portion and a right portion.In a further embodiment, a method of selectively converting a convertible running bike from a non-motorized configuration to a motorized configuration where the convertible running bike includes a front fork rotatably engaged with a front wheel, a handle bar rotatably engaged with the front fork for steering the bike, a frame including a down tube portion connected to the front fork, a rear fork rotatably engaged with a rear wheel, a drivetrain receiving region for selectively receiving a drivetrain assembly, a battery mount for selectively receiving a battery; and a seat connected to the frame. The method may include disposing a drivetrain assembly having a first sprocket within the drivetrain receiving region, disposing an electronic controller within an electronic control housing receiving region and coupling to the drivetrain assembly, disposing a battery within the battery mount, coupling a throttle sensor to the electronic controller, connecting a second sprocket to the rear wheel, connecting a chain to the first sprocket and the second sprocket. In response to an input to the throttle sensor, the electronic controller causes the drivetrain assembly to rotate the first sprocket, the first sprocket driving the chain, and the chain rotating the second sprocket and the rear wheel, and the convertible running bike operates in the motorized configuration.A convertible running bike without pedals for riding by a child capable of selectively converting from a non-motorized configuration to a motorized configuration may include a front fork rotatably engaged with a front wheel, a handle bar rotatably engaged with the front fork for steering the bike, a frame, a footrest and a seat connected to the frame. The frame may include a down tube portion connected to the front fork, a rear fork rotatably engaged with a rear wheel, a drivetrain receiving region for selectively receiving a longitudinal drivetrain assembly, an electronic control housing for selectively receiving an electronic control assembly, and a battery mount for selectively receiving a battery. The bike may also include a footrest for causing the child's feet or legs to be pushed outwardly away from the running bike.In an embodiment, the convertible running bike may also include a drivetrain assembly disposed within the drivetrain receiving region and having a first sprocket, an electronic controller disposed within an electronic control housing receiving region and coupled to the drivetrain assembly, a battery disposed within the battery mount, a throttle sensor coupled to the electronic controller, a second sprocket connected to the rear wheel, a chain connected to the first sprocket and the second sprocket. In response to an input to the throttle sensor, the electronic controller causes the drivetrain assembly to rotate the first sprocket, the first sprocket driving the chain, and the chain rotating the second sprocket and the rear wheel and the convertible running bike operates in the motorized configuration.In an embodiment, the footrest may include an angled front portion for causing the child's feet or legs to be pushed outwardly away from the running bike. The footrest may further include an angled rear portion for causing the child's feet or legs to be pushed outwardly away from the running bike.In an embodiment, the bike may include a sound system. In various embodiments, the sound system may be attached to a number plate or disposed within the battery. In another embodiment, the bike further includes a left side panel and a right side panel attached to the frame, and the sound system is disposed within the left and right side panels.In an embodiment, the bike may include a clutch attached to the handlebar such that the operation of the clutch by the rider creates sounds that mimic a motorcycle or other vehicle, or creates other sounds.In an embodiment, the handlebar further includes a diameter which may comprise various sizes based on the size of a rider's hands.Referring now toFIGS.1-5of the drawings, aconvertible running bike1may be constructed according to a non-motorized embodiment and includes amainframe assembly84having a steeringtube2connected to adown tube4. The downtube4is connected to a mainframeright portion9and a mainframe leftportion5. The mainframeright portion9is connected to a rear fork right3and the mainframe leftportion5is connected to rear fork left6. Arear wheel11is rotatably connected to the rear fork left6and rear fork right3by conventional bicycle axle hardware such as nuts, bolts and bearings that will not be described in detail. A conventional brake, such asdisc brake95, may be attached to therear wheel11. Other brake mechanisms may be employed such as a drum brake. Similarly, afront wheel12is connected to afront fork assembly14, which passes through asteering tube2and connects to thehandlebars15having aleft grip18and aright grip19. Aseat20is connected to the mainframe leftportion5and the mainframeright portion9through anadjustable seat tube10. Theseat20is adjustable for children of different ages and heights. The seat height is adjustable to account for both comfort considerations for the child, but also to provide an optimum height where the child may be able to straddle the bike, either sitting in the seat or standing, and still keep both feet on the ground. In an embodiment, thesteering tube2, thehandlebars15, thegrips18and19, theseat20and the adjustable seat tube may comprise conventional bicycle components, thus providing a more inexpensive manufacturing process.FIG.2illustrates the slim nature of the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration), which is designed to allow for a young child to straddle the running bike and perform an easy running motion of the legs. The orientation of thegrips18and19, and in embodiments of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration), eithergrip18and19may function as a throttle input from the child rider. As shown inFIG.6, theright grip19to may be integrated with athrottle sensor45. In an embodiment for the convertible running bike (motorized configuration), thethrottle sensor45may be set in a mode where a child could twist the throttle around its longitudinal circumference in order to adjust the amount of power provided to an electric motor, or other type of propulsion system. In another embodiment for the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration), thethrottle sensor45may be locked in a stationary mode to provide a stationary grip when not being used to modulate the electric motor.Also shown isfootrest46attached to aplate150disposed on the bottom of the mainframe leftportion5and the mainframeright portion9to provide a location for a child to rest their feet during coasting or propulsion. Further, thefootrest46is shaped narrow enough with gentle angles to provide non-traumatic surfaces to the legs while the child balances and runs with the bike. More specifically, thefootrest46includes anangled front portion80and an angledrear portion81that provide a gentle slope such that if a child is straddling theconvertible running bike1and is standing either directly in front of or behind thefootrest46, if the bike moves in the direction of child's feet, theangled front portion80or the angledrear portion81cause the child's feet and/or legs to be pushed outwardly away from the bike. Therefore, unlike a conventional bicycle with pedals or motorcycle with footpegs, thefootrest46will not tend to strike and potentially injure the child's feet and/or legs.FIG.5shows the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration) with an exploded view of the interior space of themainframe assembly84provided by the rear fork left6, the rear fork right3, the mainframe leftportion5, the mainframeright portion9and thedown tube4. In an embodiment, an electronic controlhousing receiving region49defines an area designed to receive, selectively attach and protect electrical components for the convertible running bike (motorized configuration), such as theelectronic control assembly41shown inFIG.10. In an embodiment, adrivetrain receiving region50defines an area to receive, selectively attach and protect adrivetrain assembly36, such as shown inFIGS.10and12. Thedrivetrain assembly36consists of an electrical motor andtransmission102that is controlled by theelectrical control system41illustrated inFIG.12. In an embodiment, theelectrical motor102may be a brush motor or a brushless motor, or other motor of similar function. In an embodiment, anexternal battery mount27is connected to thedown tube4and is designed to selectively receive abattery25. Also shown is an internalbattery receiving region51for receiving a battery inside themainframe assembly84in another embodiment.FIGS.6-10andFIG.12illustrate the components of the electrical drive system of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration). In a motorized configuration, the convertible running bike can perform in a similar manner and maintain all the functions of a running bike as when the convertible running bike is in non-motorized configuration, whether or not the propulsion is engaged. In various embodiments, some or all of the components described may be included by a user for use as a running bike, but not including other components, such as not including thebattery25, for example. In an embodiment, a shut-off switch may be provided to allow the running bike with some or all of the drivetrain components to operate as a running bike in a freewheel status.Afreewheel sprocket44is rotatably attached in a conventional technique to therear wheel11. In an embodiment, thefreewheel sprocket44may comprise a BMX freewheel sprocket. For theconvertible running bike1in the motorized configuration, achain21is selectively connected between thesprocket44and asprocket100disposed on thedrivetrain assembly36. The purpose of thechain21is to transfer force from thesprocket100to thesprocket44, which in turn forces therear wheel11to rotate and move thebike1. Because of the gear reduction of the motor andtransmission102, combined with thefreewheel sprocket44, rearward motion is limited. In an embodiment, thesprocket44and thesprocket100may comprise conventional parts, such as bicycle sprockets. Further, thedrivetrain assembly36is not limited to a chain drive system, but may also comprise a belt drive, shaft drive or other drive mechanism.FIGS.6-10illustrate theconvertible running bike1in a motorized configuration.FIG.10shows the internal placement of the electrical and mechanical drive system of the bike in the motorized configuration. In an embodiment, anelectronic control assembly41is selectively and electronically coupled on top of and adjacent to thedrivetrain assembly36. In an embodiment, thebattery25may be selectively engaged with thebattery mount27on the exterior of themainframe assembly84and electrically coupled toelectronic control assembly41. Theelectronic control assembly41, thedrivetrain assembly36, thebattery mount27and theexternal battery25may be connected to themainframe assembly84and/or each other using conventional attachment devices, such as nut and bolt assemblies, so that these components may be easily installed or uninstalled by an adult by using conventional household tools.FIG.11shows a close-up perspective view of an embodiment of aframe assembly84of theconvertible running bike1as shown inFIGS.1-10. Theframe assembly84provides a compact protective shield for the various electrical and mechanical components that may be installed within theassembly84.FIG.12provides an exploded view of the various components that may be installed in order to convert theconvertible running bike1from a non-motorized configuration to a motorized configuration. In an embodiment,electric cable90selectively couples thethrottle sensor45with the electronic theelectronic control assembly41;electric cables92and94selectively couple thebattery25through theexternal battery mount27to theelectronic control assembly41; andelectric cables96and98selectively couple thedrivetrain36to theelectronic control assembly41. In an embodiment, thethrottle sensor45is coupled to theelectronic control assembly41, which in an embodiment comprises a central processing unit/receiver (CPU)104coupled to an electronic speed control (ESC)106. Also shown is thechain21selectively connected between thesprocket100and thesprocket44.FIG.14andFIG.15show an exploded view and a perspective view respectively of another embodiment of amainframe assembly110of the convertible running bike. While this embodiment is similar to themainframe assembly84, the mainframe portions and rear forks have been combined into a mainframe/rear fork leftportion112and a mainframe/rear forkright portion114in order to provide a more efficient mainframe and ease of manufacturing. Themainframe assembly110further comprises asteering tube116connected to adown tube118, which is connected to the mainframe/rear fork leftportion112and the mainframe/rear forkright portion114.Steering tube116and downtube118are substantially similar tosteering tube2anddowntube4discussed above. In an embodiment,plate120andseat tube122are attached todrivetrain assembly mount124. Theplate120is used to attach a footrest similar tofootrest46, theseat tube122is used to attach a seat similar toseat20and thedrivetrain assembly mount124is used to attach a drivetrain assembly similar todrivetrain assembly36.FIG.16andFIG.17show a perspective view and an exploded perspective view respectively of another embodiment of amainframe assembly160of the convertible running bike. While this embodiment is similar to themainframe assemblies84and110, the mainframe portions, the rear forks and the down tube have been combined into a mainframe/rear fork/down tube leftportion162and a mainframe/rear fork/down tuberight portion164in order to provide a more efficient mainframe and ease of manufacturing. Themainframe assembly160further comprises asteering tube166connected to the mainframe/rear fork/down tube leftportion162and the mainframe/rear fork/down tuberight portion164.Steering tube166is substantially similar tosteering tube2discussed above. In an embodiment,plate172andseat tube170are attached to drivetrainassembly mount components168and169respectively. Theplate172is used to attach a footrest similar tofootrest46, theseat tube170is used to attach a seat similar toseat20and the drivetrainassembly mount components168and169are used to attach a drivetrain assembly similar todrivetrain assembly36.As illustrated in the schematic diagram inFIG.13, thethrottle sensor45is coupled to theelectronic control assembly41, which in an embodiment comprises the central processing unit/receiver (CPU)104coupled to the electronic speed control (ESC)106. In an embodiment, theCPU104receives a signal from thethrottle sensor45based on an input from a rider. The signal is then transmitted to theESC106which controls the delivery of power from thebattery25provided to themotor102. In an embodiment, theESC106includes a microcontroller device.FIGS.18-22illustrate a convertible running bike (motorized configuration) including themainframe assembly110ofFIGS.14and15, and a combined electronic control/battery mount assembly180according to an embodiment. The electronic control/battery mount assembly180comprises substantially similar components as theelectronic control assembly41and theexternal battery mount27as discussed above. In an embodiment, adrivetrain assembly186is selectively connected to thedrivetrain assembly mount124and to the electronic control/battery mount assembly180viacable192.Battery182is selectively coupled to the electronic control/battery mount assembly180.In the close-up and exploded views ofFIGS.18-22, the electronic control/battery mount assembly180comprises a combined central processing unit/receiver/electronic speed control (CPU/ESC)183that performs in a substantially similar fashion to the central processing unit/receiver (CPU)104and the electronic speed control (ESC)106discussed above. The CPU/ESC183is electronically coupled to thebattery182viacables188and190. The electronic control/battery mount assembly180is attached to thedown tube118with fastener(s) such asfastening components186.In an embodiment of theconvertible running bike1in the motorized configuration,FIG.13also includes an optional external direct connect orwireless device108that may be used to connect, wired or wirelessly, to an external smart device or computer to allow programming and/or real-time external control of the propulsion system. In this embodiment, the external direct connect orwireless device108allows an adult to set theconvertible running bike1to be safely powered at a speed that is less than the ability of the child. In an embodiment, this speed control function may also be accomplished through direct control on theconvertible running bike1through methods such as providing a screw setting or knob (not shown) on thebike1. TheCPU104may connect to an external wireless transmitter/receiver that can communicate with theCPU104via Bluetooth, RF or other wireless protocols. In addition, theconvertible running bike1may include a function that allows a supervising adult to provide a power limit or cut-off for thebike1if it travels out of a specified range, or if the adult feels the child needs to be stopped or slowed down.In an embodiment, theCPU104may include a GPS navigation device (shown inFIG.26as223). The GPS device allows the remote tracking of thebike1by a supervising adult via a wireless connection such as Bluetooth, RF, Wi-Fi or other wireless protocols. The GPS device may be used to track location of the bike1(orbike201inFIG.26) in various environments such as on a track. When a rider is going around the track, the GPS may send location and speed data though the wireless connection. This data may be used to provide monitoring of race speeds by registering race track lap times or calculating position of racers on the track.In an embodiment, an application (app) for a smart device such as a phone or tablet may be downloaded by a supervising adult to receive data transmitted from thebike1such as location and speed data based on GPS device readings. In another embodiment, theCPU104may transmit reliability data concerning the usage and status of thedrivetrain assembly186or other components for monitoring of service requirements for thebike1. The reliability status data may be transmitted at preset programmed intervals or on command from instructions from a supervising adult or service personnel.Embodiments are shown below of the methods of converting theconvertible running bike1from a non-motorized configuration into a motorized configuration. All of the steps below may be accomplished using conventional tools located in homes.Conversion Method for Internal Electronic Control Assembly/External Battery Mount1. Removerear wheel11via standard bicycle procedures.2. Remove fastener(s) [three bolts in an embodiment] holding theexternal battery mount27.3. Installfreewheel sprocket44ontorear wheel11per conventional bicycle procedures.4. Position thedrivetrain assembly36into thedrivetrain receiving region50in themainframe assembly84. Install the fastener(s) [four bolts in an embodiment] to affix thedrivetrain assembly36to thedrivetrain receiving region50in themainframe assembly84.5. Connect theelectric cables96and98from thedrivetrain assembly36to theelectronic control assembly41through themainframe assembly84while the speedelectronic control assembly41is positioned aft of its final position in thedrivetrain receiving region50.6. Remove theright side grip19from thehandlebar15and install thethrottle sensor45securely to thehandlebar15.7. Connect theelectric cable90from thethrottle sensor45through thedowntube4via normal bicycle cable routing techniques and connect theelectric cable90to theelectronic control assembly41.8. Connect theelectric cables92and94from thebattery mount27through thedowntube4to theelectronic control assembly41.9. Reposition thebattery mount27back onto thedowntube4and reinstall the fastener(s).10. Position theelectronic control assembly41into position in the electronic controlhousing receiving region49in themainframe assembly84and secure with fastener(s).11. Position therear wheel11with attachedfreewheel sprocket44onto the rear fork right3and the rear fork left6and install thechain21per conventional bicycle procedures.12. Position thebattery25onto thebattery mount27and the convertible running bike is now operational in a motorized configuration.Conversion Method for External Electronic Control/Battery Mount Assembly1. Removerear wheel11via standard bicycle procedures.2. Remove fastener(s) [three bolts in an embodiment] holding theexternal battery mount180.3. Installfreewheel sprocket44ontorear wheel11per conventional bicycle procedures.4. Position thedrivetrain assembly186into the drivetrain receiving region in themainframe assembly110. Install the fastener(s) [four bolts in an embodiment] to affix thedrivetrain assembly186to the drivetrain receiving region in themainframe assembly110.5. Connect theelectric cable192from thedrivetrain assembly186to the electronic control/battery mount assembly180through themainframe assembly110while the electronic control/battery mount assembly180is positioned forward of thedowntube118.6. Remove theright side grip19from thehandlebar15and install thethrottle sensor45securely to thehandlebar15.7. Connect theelectric cable90from thethrottle sensor45through thedowntube4via normal bicycle cable routing techniques and connect theelectric cable90to the electronic control/battery mount assembly180.8. Reposition the electronic control/battery mount assembly180back onto thedowntube118and reinstall the fastener(s).9. Position therear wheel11with attachedfreewheel sprocket44onto the mainframe/rear fork right portion and the mainframe/rear fork left portion and install thechain21per conventional bicycle procedures.10. Position thebattery182onto the electronic control/battery mount assembly180and the convertible running bike is now operational in a motorized configuration.Typically, electric cycles utilize a simpler direct motor connection without a large gear reduction. However, in embodiments of the present invention, the motor andtransmission102employs a small, high rpm motor with a large planetary gear reduction and a 90 degree angle drive output, which allows for a lighter, more compact drivetrain. Additionally, combined withfreewheel sprocket44, this allows for conservation of energy, because the motor and transmission does not have to turn while coasting. This embodiment also limits rearward motion or rollback when a child stops on an upward incline. The small diameter and orientation of the motor andtransmission102allows its placement in the frame assembly to provide a centralized center of gravity, as well as a narrow profile that provides additional clearance for children's legs for use as a running cycle.In an embodiment, theCPU104may be programmed to sense the amp draw and determine whether the rider has “pushed” the bike to start the forward movement. This program feature provides an additional feature to require a rider to push the bike to start rolling, which would reduce the initial amp draw on the motor, and so theCPU104can sense that the rider started pushing the bike from zero. This feature may reduce concerns about a child grabbing and twisting the throttle, and possibly advancing forward with only one hand on the handlebars in an unsafe manner.TheCPU104may also have a sensor to determine orientation and acceleration of the running cycle. This can be utilized to limit or modify motor activity, as well as provide safety shutoff's if conditions warrant.In an embodiment, thebattery mount system180may interface with thebattery182in a mechanical or electrical manner in order to select preset motor performance.FIGS.23-25illustrate another convertible running bike in amotorized configuration201including asound system210according to an embodiment. Thesound system210may comprise a speaker, or a sound exciter or inducer. The speaker may include a battery. Thesound system210may provide sounds to a rider that could relate to entertainment or safety concerns. For example, the sound system may broadcast sounds that mimic a particular brand of motorcycle or other types of vehicle. The sounds may be variable in pitch or volume based on the speed of abike201. In an embodiment, sounds may be downloaded by a rider or an adult supervisor through the app and transmitted to thebike201.FIGS.23(a) and23(b)show an example of asound system210as mounted on anumber plate212. Thenumber plate212may be mounted on a handlebar207having aleft grip203and aright grip205. Thenumber plate212may display a number for thebike201that is used to identify the rider in a race environment for example. Thesound system210may be mounted on a portion of thenumber plate212that is facing the rider for better sound transmission to the rider. In other embodiments, the speaker may be attached in substantially any location on thebike201, while the sound exciter or inducer may be located on any surface on thebike201that is substantially semi-flat.FIG.25shows other locations for mounting thesound system210including inside abattery215which is substantially similar tobattery25. In this embodiment, the sound system may be powered by thebattery215. Thesound system210may also be mounted inside aside panel218. Additional locations are possible for mounting thesound system210on thebike201such that the sound is transmitted to a rider.FIG.26(a)andFIG.26(b)illustrate another convertible running bike in amotorized configuration201including a clutch220according to an embodiment. The clutch220may be attached ahandlebar204and adjacent to aleft grip203. In another embodiment, the clutch220could be mounted on thehandlebar204and adjacent to aright grip205. In operation in one embodiment, when a rider grasps and pulls the clutch220towards theleft grip203, power may be proportionally reduced electronically to the drivetrain to mimic a response of using a clutch on a motorcycle. Similarly, as the rider releases the clutch220, power may be proportionally increased electronically to the drivetrain.While the rider is pulling the clutch220, a sound may be transmitted through asound system210that mimics a motor revving at proportionally increasing volume such as on a motorcycle. While the rider is releasing the clutch220, a sound may be transmitted through thesound system210that mimics a motor revving at proportionally decreasing volume such as on a motorcycle. When the rider is not engaging the clutch220, a sound may be transmitted through thesound system210that mimics a motorcycle motor that is idling. In another example, the transmitted sounds may mimic sounds from a motorcycle that is involved in an actual racing start. In this embodiment, the rider may first engage the clutch220at approximately 50% level for example which causes thesound system210to correspondingly produces a simulated revving engine sound. Then, the rider may quickly release the clutch220and thesound system210correspondingly produces a high acceleration racing start sound. In other embodiments, this arrangement and operation of the clutch220and thesound system210may be employed on standard motorcycles.FIG.26also shows aGPS device223as described above which allows the remote tracking of thebike1by a supervising adult via a wireless connection such as Bluetooth, RF, Wi-Fi or other wireless protocols.FIGS.27-29illustrate another convertible running bike in amotorized configuration201including afootrest226according to an embodiment. Thefootrest226may include a front leftangled portion230and a front right angled portion228and may be connected to amainframe assembly227of thebike201withfasteners229and231. Similar to thefootrest46, the frontangled portions230and228of thefootrest226provide a gentle slope such that is a child rider is straddling thebike201and is standing directly in front of thefootrest226, if thebike201moves in the direction of the child's feet, the frontangled portions230and228cause the child's feet and/or legs to be pushed outwardly away from the bike.Similarly, thefootrest226may include a rear left angledportion235and a rear right angledportion232. The rearangled portions235and232of thefootrest226provide a gentle slope such that is a child rider is straddling thebike201and is standing directly in back of thefootrest226, if thebike201moves in the direction of the child's feet, the rearangled portions235and232cause the child's feet and/or legs to be pushed outwardly away from the bike.In an embodiment, thehandlebar204, theleft grip203and theright grip205may be scaled in various sizes to accommodate a rider's hands which are generally smaller in size and also vary. For example, the diameter of thehandlebar204may include a diameter of approximately ⅞, 1, 1.25, 1.5 and 1.75 inches.Grips203and205of corresponding sizes are used along with thehandlebar204.In various embodiments, the present invention can apply to other motorized transportation devices such as wheelchairs or strollers.Although the invention has been described with reference to the above examples, it will be understood that many modifications and variations are contemplated within the true spirit and scope of the embodiments of the invention as disclosed herein. Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which the invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore, it is to be understood that the invention shall not be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended and contemplated to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein, they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONThis application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 16/943,401 filed Jul. 30, 2020, which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 15/949,026 filed Aug. 9, 2018, now U.S. Pat. No. 10,730,584, which is a Continuation-in-Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/850,738 filed Sep. 10, 2015, which is related and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62/048,834 filed Sep. 11, 2014, each of which is assigned to the same assignee with the same inventors, and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThis invention relates generally to devices used to train children to properly learn how to balance and control a two wheeled vehicle such as a bicycle or a motorcycle. Secondarily, the invention relates to devices for training children how to use a throttle and brake to control a motor driven vehicle such as a small motorcycle. The invention allows for the growth of the child's skills from initial balance, to the more complex task of combining balance, throttle control, and braking, enabled by a lightweight form, low seat height and narrow foot platform.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONThis section describes the background art of the disclosed embodiments of the present invention. There is no intention, either express or implied, that the background art discussed in this section legally constitutes prior art.There have been a number of recent advancements in the techniques and devices to use to teach children how to ride a bicycle. One example has been the use of a balance bike, also called a running bike, similar to that referenced in U.S. Patent Publication No. US2010/0052287 to Mcfarland (“McFarland”). The McFarland vehicle is primarily a bicycle with a low seat height, but does not include pedals or cranks to propel the vehicle. This arrangement allows for a child to use the child's feet and legs to propel and balance the bike by walking or running, until the skill level of the user increases and the child can push and coast the bike.Further reference may be made to the following patents; U.S. Pat. No. 8,414,007; U.S. Patent Publication No. US2014/0077470; and U.S. Pat. No. 8,794,654.While this concept has been great at teaching very young children how to balance, the youngest age groups still lack the ability, strength and dexterity to advance to riding a standard bicycle with pedals and cranks. Thus, actually pedaling the bicycle becomes the next skill that needs to be conquered. During this transition from running bike to bicycle, often parents must simply wait for the child's motor skills to develop to the point where the child can keep their feet on the pedals while pedaling in a circular motion.In addition to learning the basic skill of balancing on two wheels, for motorcycle riding, a child must learn the basic throttle control system through the use of twisting the throttle on the handlebar. This technique is difficult to teach, and somewhat dangerous if there is not constant adult supervision. There have been previous attempts to aid children by putting training wheels on small motorcycles, which can allow training of some balancing skills to be separated from throttle control skills. While this technique may reduce anxiety and allow earlier development, training wheels still fail to provide a completely realistic training tool for learning balance and throttle control. Further, the weight and size of the bike are concerns for smaller and younger children. Another potential problem occurs when a motorcycle may be ridden too fast before the child has a chance to acquire the skills needed to modulate the throttle, thus becoming more dangerous than necessary.Another problem arises when attempting to provide a vehicle that has a low enough seat height so that a small child can straddle the vehicle or sit on the seat and still keep both feet on the ground. For bicycles, this problem arises because of the space required to provide the pedals and gears, while for motorcycles, the problem relates to providing a relatively large engine and other components. As a result, for both bicycles and motorcycles, the seat height must be raised to accommodate these components, thus resulting in seat heights that are too high for a child to keep both feet on the ground.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSIn order to better understand the invention and to see how the same may be carried out in practice, non-limiting preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:FIG.1shows a perspective view of a convertible running bike in a non-motorized configuration, which is constructed according to an embodiment;FIG.2is a top view of the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration) ofFIG.1;FIG.3is a side view of the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration) ofFIG.1;FIG.4is another side view of the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration) ofFIG.1;FIG.5is an exploded, perspective view of the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration) ofFIG.1;FIG.6shows a perspective view of the convertible running bike ofFIG.1in a motorized configuration;FIG.7is a top view of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.6;FIG.8is a side view of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.6;FIG.9is another side view of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.6;FIG.10is an exploded perspective view of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.6;FIG.11shows a perspective view of an embodiment of a mainframe assembly of the convertible running bike ofFIGS.1and6;FIG.12shows a perspective pictorial view of various components that are installed on the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration) ofFIG.1to the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.6;FIG.13shows a block diagram of electrical components for the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.6;FIG.14shows a perspective view of another embodiment of a mainframe assembly of the convertible running bike;FIG.15shows an exploded perspective view of the various mainframe assembly components ofFIG.14;FIG.16shows a perspective view of another embodiment of a mainframe assembly of the convertible running bike;FIG.17shows an exploded perspective view of the various mainframe assembly components ofFIG.16;FIG.18is a side view of a convertible running bike (motorized configuration) including the mainframe assembly ofFIGS.14and15, and an electronic control/battery mount assembly according to an embodiment;FIG.19is a close-up partial side view of a section of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.18;FIG.20is a top view of the electronic control/battery mount assembly ofFIGS.14and15according to an embodiment;FIG.21is a bottom view of the electronic control/battery mount assembly ofFIGS.14and15according to an embodiment;FIG.22is an exploded view of the electronic control/battery mount assembly ofFIGS.14and15according to an embodiment;FIG.23(a)andFIG.23(b)show perspective views of another convertible running bike in a motorized configuration including a sound system, which is constructed according to an embodiment;FIG.24is a front view of the convertible running bike ofFIG.23;FIG.25is a side view of the convertible running bike ofFIG.23;FIG.26(a)andFIG.26(b)show perspective views of the convertible running bike ofFIG.23including a clutch, which is constructed according to an embodiment;FIG.27(a)andFIG.27(b)shows perspective views of the convertible running bike ofFIG.23including a footrest, which is constructed according to an embodiment;FIG.28is a side view of the convertible running bike ofFIG.27; andFIG.29is a top view of the convertible running bike ofFIG.27.DETAILED DESCRIPTIONCertain embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which some, but not all, embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed, these embodiments of the invention may be in many different forms and thus the invention should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein; rather, these embodiments are provided as illustrative examples only so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.It will be readily understood that the components of the embodiments as generally described and illustrated in the drawings herein, could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus, the following more detailed description of the certain ones of the embodiments of the system, components and method of the present invention, as represented in the drawings, is not intended to limit the scope of the invention, as claimed, but is merely representative of the embodiment of the invention.Therefore, the present invention provides a convertible running bike with a small, electronically controlled motor in order to solve training problems found in conventional solutions. As with the logic of a simple running bike, the convertible running bike allows a child to learn to use their feet and legs to balance, propel and stop before having to learn to drive the feet in a circular pedaling motion, without being able to easily touch the ground while sitting on the seat. Further, the motorized running bike of the present invention provides a controlled way for a child to propel the bike using their hand on a throttle in a similar manner used with motorcycles. The learning process for the convertible running bike may be controlled and adapted to each child's ability by an adult. This process can be further controlled by features included in the electronic capability such as maximum rates of speed. Because a child will remain interested with these new functions, the child can enjoy the motorized running bike without becoming frustrated with the complex task of driving their legs in a circular motion before they are physically capable.The convertible motorized running bike of the present invention is designed to be both a toy, and also a training device for both a bicycle and motorcycle. The invention has a frame that acts in a similar function to one of today's current balance bikes, with no crank set or pedals, and has a slender profile that aids with walking/balancing leg movements. In this configuration, the frame is lightweight so that a young child can have confidence in handling, controlling and lifting the bike.Once a child has mastered the basics and is able to coast, turn, and slow down for obstacles, the frame may be fitted with a motorized propulsion system. The frame is adapted to support the addition of the motorized system components, so that the motorized version of the present invention may be controlled in manners similar to an ATV or motorcycle. The motor may be easily attached to the frame in a prefabricated motor location, and a chain may then be installed to provide propulsion to the rear wheel. The motorized version may be controlled with either a thumb throttle or twist throttle. In various embodiments, the motor is an electrical type motor that may be modulated and controlled via the throttle by the rider. In other embodiments, the motor speed and bike acceleration may be preset by an adult through a smart device application, a wireless transmitter, or a directly connected cable, mechanism or programmable key to provide an extra level of safety for the child until they acquire the appropriate skill level to control the vehicle.As a result, a child will be able to more easily learn the mechanics and skills of motorcycle riding on a lightweight vehicle, instead of heavier and more powerful vehicle, such as a gas powered motorcycle. By having the ability to continue learning motorcycle riding skills after learning balance skills, a child can maintain fun and interest during the time period before they begin to develop the leg skill to pedal a normal bicycle. In addition, a child can gain a tremendous amount of throttle control skill and vehicle awareness before they begin to ride a heavier and faster motorcycle.In other embodiments, the convertible running bike may have the motorized components installed and in place, but not used, thus allowing a child to learn to balance the slightly heavier bike before activating the motorized system to provide propulsion to the bike.A convertible running bike capable of selectively converting from a non-motorized configuration to a motorized configuration may include a front fork rotatably engaged with a front wheel, a handle bar rotatably engaged with the front fork for steering the bike, a frame and a seat connected to the frame. The frame may include a down tube portion connected to the front fork, a rear fork rotatably engaged with a rear wheel, a drivetrain receiving region for selectively receiving a drivetrain assembly, and a battery mount for selectively receiving a battery.The convertible running bike may also include a drivetrain assembly disposed within the drivetrain receiving region and having a first sprocket, an electronic controller disposed within an electronic control housing receiving region and coupled to the drivetrain assembly, a battery disposed within the battery mount, a throttle sensor coupled to the electronic controller, a second sprocket connected to the rear wheel, a chain connected to the first sprocket and the second sprocket. In response to an input to the throttle sensor, the electronic controller causes the drivetrain assembly to rotate the first sprocket, the first sprocket driving the chain, and the chain rotating the second sprocket and the rear wheel and the convertible running bike operates in the motorized configuration.In an embodiment, the bike may include a footrest. The drivetrain assembly may include a brush motor or a brushless motor. The frame may include a left portion and a right portion.In another embodiment, a running bike capable of selectively converting from a non-motorized configuration to a motorized configuration may include a front fork rotatably engaged with a front wheel, a handle bar rotatably engaged with the front fork for steering the bike, a frame and a seat connected to the frame. The frame may include a down tube portion connected to the front fork, a rear fork rotatably engaged with a rear wheel, a drivetrain receiving region for selectively receiving a drivetrain assembly, a battery mount for selectively receiving a battery, such that the convertible running bike operates in the non-motorized configuration. In an embodiment, the bike may include a footrest. The frame may include a left portion and a right portion.In a further embodiment, a method of selectively converting a convertible running bike from a non-motorized configuration to a motorized configuration where the convertible running bike includes a front fork rotatably engaged with a front wheel, a handle bar rotatably engaged with the front fork for steering the bike, a frame including a down tube portion connected to the front fork, a rear fork rotatably engaged with a rear wheel, a drivetrain receiving region for selectively receiving a drivetrain assembly, a battery mount for selectively receiving a battery; and a seat connected to the frame. The method may include disposing a drivetrain assembly having a first sprocket within the drivetrain receiving region, disposing an electronic controller within an electronic control housing receiving region and coupling to the drivetrain assembly, disposing a battery within the battery mount, coupling a throttle sensor to the electronic controller, connecting a second sprocket to the rear wheel, connecting a chain to the first sprocket and the second sprocket. In response to an input to the throttle sensor, the electronic controller causes the drivetrain assembly to rotate the first sprocket, the first sprocket driving the chain, and the chain rotating the second sprocket and the rear wheel, and the convertible running bike operates in the motorized configuration.A convertible running bike without pedals for riding by a child capable of selectively converting from a non-motorized configuration to a motorized configuration may include a front fork rotatably engaged with a front wheel, a handle bar rotatably engaged with the front fork for steering the bike, a frame, a footrest and a seat connected to the frame. The frame may include a down tube portion connected to the front fork, a rear fork rotatably engaged with a rear wheel, a drivetrain receiving region for selectively receiving a longitudinal drivetrain assembly, an electronic control housing for selectively receiving an electronic control assembly, and a battery mount for selectively receiving a battery. The bike may also include a footrest for causing the child's feet or legs to be pushed outwardly away from the running bike.In an embodiment, the convertible running bike may also include a drivetrain assembly disposed within the drivetrain receiving region and having a first sprocket, an electronic controller disposed within an electronic control housing receiving region and coupled to the drivetrain assembly, a battery disposed within the battery mount, a throttle sensor coupled to the electronic controller, a second sprocket connected to the rear wheel, a chain connected to the first sprocket and the second sprocket. In response to an input to the throttle sensor, the electronic controller causes the drivetrain assembly to rotate the first sprocket, the first sprocket driving the chain, and the chain rotating the second sprocket and the rear wheel and the convertible running bike operates in the motorized configuration.In an embodiment, the footrest may include an angled front portion for causing the child's feet or legs to be pushed outwardly away from the running bike. The footrest may further include an angled rear portion for causing the child's feet or legs to be pushed outwardly away from the running bike.In an embodiment, the bike may include a sound system. In various embodiments, the sound system may be attached to a number plate or disposed within the battery. In another embodiment, the bike further includes a left side panel and a right side panel attached to the frame, and the sound system is disposed within the left and right side panels.In an embodiment, the bike may include a clutch attached to the handlebar such that the operation of the clutch by the rider creates sounds that mimic a motorcycle or other vehicle, or creates other sounds.In an embodiment, the handlebar further includes a diameter which may comprise various sizes based on the size of a rider's hands.Referring now toFIGS.1-5of the drawings, aconvertible running bike1may be constructed according to a non-motorized embodiment and includes amainframe assembly84having a steeringtube2connected to adown tube4. The downtube4is connected to a mainframeright portion9and a mainframe leftportion5. The mainframeright portion9is connected to a rear fork right3and the mainframe leftportion5is connected to rear fork left6. Arear wheel11is rotatably connected to the rear fork left6and rear fork right3by conventional bicycle axle hardware such as nuts, bolts and bearings that will not be described in detail. A conventional brake, such asdisc brake95, may be attached to therear wheel11. Other brake mechanisms may be employed such as a drum brake. Similarly, afront wheel12is connected to afront fork assembly14, which passes through asteering tube2and connects to thehandlebars15having aleft grip18and aright grip19. Aseat20is connected to the mainframe leftportion5and the mainframeright portion9through anadjustable seat tube10. Theseat20is adjustable for children of different ages and heights. The seat height is adjustable to account for both comfort considerations for the child, but also to provide an optimum height where the child may be able to straddle the bike, either sitting in the seat or standing, and still keep both feet on the ground. In an embodiment, thesteering tube2, thehandlebars15, thegrips18and19, theseat20and the adjustable seat tube may comprise conventional bicycle components, thus providing a more inexpensive manufacturing process.FIG.2illustrates the slim nature of the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration), which is designed to allow for a young child to straddle the running bike and perform an easy running motion of the legs. The orientation of thegrips18and19, and in embodiments of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration), eithergrip18and19may function as a throttle input from the child rider. As shown inFIG.6, theright grip19to may be integrated with athrottle sensor45. In an embodiment for the convertible running bike (motorized configuration), thethrottle sensor45may be set in a mode where a child could twist the throttle around its longitudinal circumference in order to adjust the amount of power provided to an electric motor, or other type of propulsion system. In another embodiment for the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration), thethrottle sensor45may be locked in a stationary mode to provide a stationary grip when not being used to modulate the electric motor.Also shown isfootrest46attached to aplate150disposed on the bottom of the mainframe leftportion5and the mainframeright portion9to provide a location for a child to rest their feet during coasting or propulsion. Further, thefootrest46is shaped narrow enough with gentle angles to provide non-traumatic surfaces to the legs while the child balances and runs with the bike. More specifically, thefootrest46includes anangled front portion80and an angledrear portion81that provide a gentle slope such that if a child is straddling theconvertible running bike1and is standing either directly in front of or behind thefootrest46, if the bike moves in the direction of child's feet, theangled front portion80or the angledrear portion81cause the child's feet and/or legs to be pushed outwardly away from the bike. Therefore, unlike a conventional bicycle with pedals or motorcycle with footpegs, thefootrest46will not tend to strike and potentially injure the child's feet and/or legs.FIG.5shows the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration) with an exploded view of the interior space of themainframe assembly84provided by the rear fork left6, the rear fork right3, the mainframe leftportion5, the mainframeright portion9and thedown tube4. In an embodiment, an electronic controlhousing receiving region49defines an area designed to receive, selectively attach and protect electrical components for the convertible running bike (motorized configuration), such as theelectronic control assembly41shown inFIG.10. In an embodiment, adrivetrain receiving region50defines an area to receive, selectively attach and protect adrivetrain assembly36, such as shown inFIGS.10and12. Thedrivetrain assembly36consists of an electrical motor andtransmission102that is controlled by theelectrical control system41illustrated inFIG.12. In an embodiment, theelectrical motor102may be a brush motor or a brushless motor, or other motor of similar function. In an embodiment, anexternal battery mount27is connected to thedown tube4and is designed to selectively receive abattery25. Also shown is an internalbattery receiving region51for receiving a battery inside themainframe assembly84in another embodiment.FIGS.6-10andFIG.12illustrate the components of the electrical drive system of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration). In a motorized configuration, the convertible running bike can perform in a similar manner and maintain all the functions of a running bike as when the convertible running bike is in non-motorized configuration, whether or not the propulsion is engaged. In various embodiments, some or all of the components described may be included by a user for use as a running bike, but not including other components, such as not including thebattery25, for example. In an embodiment, a shut-off switch may be provided to allow the running bike with some or all of the drivetrain components to operate as a running bike in a freewheel status.Afreewheel sprocket44is rotatably attached in a conventional technique to therear wheel11. In an embodiment, thefreewheel sprocket44may comprise a BMX freewheel sprocket. For theconvertible running bike1in the motorized configuration, achain21is selectively connected between thesprocket44and asprocket100disposed on thedrivetrain assembly36. The purpose of thechain21is to transfer force from thesprocket100to thesprocket44, which in turn forces therear wheel11to rotate and move thebike1. Because of the gear reduction of the motor andtransmission102, combined with thefreewheel sprocket44, rearward motion is limited. In an embodiment, thesprocket44and thesprocket100may comprise conventional parts, such as bicycle sprockets. Further, thedrivetrain assembly36is not limited to a chain drive system, but may also comprise a belt drive, shaft drive or other drive mechanism.FIGS.6-10illustrate theconvertible running bike1in a motorized configuration.FIG.10shows the internal placement of the electrical and mechanical drive system of the bike in the motorized configuration. In an embodiment, anelectronic control assembly41is selectively and electronically coupled on top of and adjacent to thedrivetrain assembly36. In an embodiment, thebattery25may be selectively engaged with thebattery mount27on the exterior of themainframe assembly84and electrically coupled toelectronic control assembly41. Theelectronic control assembly41, thedrivetrain assembly36, thebattery mount27and theexternal battery25may be connected to themainframe assembly84and/or each other using conventional attachment devices, such as nut and bolt assemblies, so that these components may be easily installed or uninstalled by an adult by using conventional household tools.FIG.11shows a close-up perspective view of an embodiment of aframe assembly84of theconvertible running bike1as shown inFIGS.1-10. Theframe assembly84provides a compact protective shield for the various electrical and mechanical components that may be installed within theassembly84.FIG.12provides an exploded view of the various components that may be installed in order to convert theconvertible running bike1from a non-motorized configuration to a motorized configuration. In an embodiment,electric cable90selectively couples thethrottle sensor45with the electronic theelectronic control assembly41;electric cables92and94selectively couple thebattery25through theexternal battery mount27to theelectronic control assembly41; andelectric cables96and98selectively couple thedrivetrain36to theelectronic control assembly41. In an embodiment, thethrottle sensor45is coupled to theelectronic control assembly41, which in an embodiment comprises a central processing unit/receiver (CPU)104coupled to an electronic speed control (ESC)106. Also shown is thechain21selectively connected between thesprocket100and thesprocket44.FIG.14andFIG.15show an exploded view and a perspective view respectively of another embodiment of amainframe assembly110of the convertible running bike. While this embodiment is similar to themainframe assembly84, the mainframe portions and rear forks have been combined into a mainframe/rear fork leftportion112and a mainframe/rear forkright portion114in order to provide a more efficient mainframe and ease of manufacturing. Themainframe assembly110further comprises asteering tube116connected to adown tube118, which is connected to the mainframe/rear fork leftportion112and the mainframe/rear forkright portion114.Steering tube116and downtube118are substantially similar tosteering tube2anddowntube4discussed above. In an embodiment,plate120andseat tube122are attached todrivetrain assembly mount124. Theplate120is used to attach a footrest similar tofootrest46, theseat tube122is used to attach a seat similar toseat20and thedrivetrain assembly mount124is used to attach a drivetrain assembly similar todrivetrain assembly36.FIG.16andFIG.17show a perspective view and an exploded perspective view respectively of another embodiment of amainframe assembly160of the convertible running bike. While this embodiment is similar to themainframe assemblies84and110, the mainframe portions, the rear forks and the down tube have been combined into a mainframe/rear fork/down tube leftportion162and a mainframe/rear fork/down tuberight portion164in order to provide a more efficient mainframe and ease of manufacturing. Themainframe assembly160further comprises asteering tube166connected to the mainframe/rear fork/down tube leftportion162and the mainframe/rear fork/down tuberight portion164.Steering tube166is substantially similar tosteering tube2discussed above. In an embodiment,plate172andseat tube170are attached to drivetrainassembly mount components168and169respectively. Theplate172is used to attach a footrest similar tofootrest46, theseat tube170is used to attach a seat similar toseat20and the drivetrainassembly mount components168and169are used to attach a drivetrain assembly similar todrivetrain assembly36.As illustrated in the schematic diagram inFIG.13, thethrottle sensor45is coupled to theelectronic control assembly41, which in an embodiment comprises the central processing unit/receiver (CPU)104coupled to the electronic speed control (ESC)106. In an embodiment, theCPU104receives a signal from thethrottle sensor45based on an input from a rider. The signal is then transmitted to theESC106which controls the delivery of power from thebattery25provided to themotor102. In an embodiment, theESC106includes a microcontroller device.FIGS.18-22illustrate a convertible running bike (motorized configuration) including themainframe assembly110ofFIGS.14and15, and a combined electronic control/battery mount assembly180according to an embodiment. The electronic control/battery mount assembly180comprises substantially similar components as theelectronic control assembly41and theexternal battery mount27as discussed above. In an embodiment, adrivetrain assembly186is selectively connected to thedrivetrain assembly mount124and to the electronic control/battery mount assembly180viacable192.Battery182is selectively coupled to the electronic control/battery mount assembly180.In the close-up and exploded views ofFIGS.18-22, the electronic control/battery mount assembly180comprises a combined central processing unit/receiver/electronic speed control (CPU/ESC)183that performs in a substantially similar fashion to the central processing unit/receiver (CPU)104and the electronic speed control (ESC)106discussed above. The CPU/ESC183is electronically coupled to thebattery182viacables188and190. The electronic control/battery mount assembly180is attached to thedown tube118with fastener(s) such asfastening components186.In an embodiment of theconvertible running bike1in the motorized configuration,FIG.13also includes an optional external direct connect orwireless device108that may be used to connect, wired or wirelessly, to an external smart device or computer to allow programming and/or real-time external control of the propulsion system. In this embodiment, the external direct connect orwireless device108allows an adult to set theconvertible running bike1to be safely powered at a speed that is less than the ability of the child. In an embodiment, this speed control function may also be accomplished through direct control on theconvertible running bike1through methods such as providing a screw setting or knob (not shown) on thebike1. TheCPU104may connect to an external wireless transmitter/receiver that can communicate with theCPU104via Bluetooth, RF or other wireless protocols. In addition, theconvertible running bike1may include a function that allows a supervising adult to provide a power limit or cut-off for thebike1if it travels out of a specified range, or if the adult feels the child needs to be stopped or slowed down.In an embodiment, theCPU104may include a GPS navigation device (shown inFIG.26as223). The GPS device allows the remote tracking of thebike1by a supervising adult via a wireless connection such as Bluetooth, RF, Wi-Fi or other wireless protocols. The GPS device may be used to track location of the bike1(orbike201inFIG.26) in various environments such as on a track. When a rider is going around the track, the GPS may send location and speed data though the wireless connection. This data may be used to provide monitoring of race speeds by registering race track lap times or calculating position of racers on the track.In an embodiment, an application (app) for a smart device such as a phone or tablet may be downloaded by a supervising adult to receive data transmitted from thebike1such as location and speed data based on GPS device readings. In another embodiment, theCPU104may transmit reliability data concerning the usage and status of thedrivetrain assembly186or other components for monitoring of service requirements for thebike1. The reliability status data may be transmitted at preset programmed intervals or on command from instructions from a supervising adult or service personnel.Embodiments are shown below of the methods of converting theconvertible running bike1from a non-motorized configuration into a motorized configuration. All of the steps below may be accomplished using conventional tools located in homes.Conversion Method for Internal Electronic Control Assembly/External Battery Mount1. Removerear wheel11via standard bicycle procedures.2. Remove fastener(s) [three bolts in an embodiment] holding theexternal battery mount27.3. Installfreewheel sprocket44ontorear wheel11per conventional bicycle procedures.4. Position thedrivetrain assembly36into thedrivetrain receiving region50in themainframe assembly84. Install the fastener(s) [four bolts in an embodiment] to affix thedrivetrain assembly36to thedrivetrain receiving region50in themainframe assembly84.5. Connect theelectric cables96and98from thedrivetrain assembly36to theelectronic control assembly41through themainframe assembly84while the speedelectronic control assembly41is positioned aft of its final position in thedrivetrain receiving region50.6. Remove theright side grip19from thehandlebar15and install thethrottle sensor45securely to thehandlebar15.7. Connect theelectric cable90from thethrottle sensor45through thedowntube4via normal bicycle cable routing techniques and connect theelectric cable90to theelectronic control assembly41.8. Connect theelectric cables92and94from thebattery mount27through thedowntube4to theelectronic control assembly41.9. Reposition thebattery mount27back onto thedowntube4and reinstall the fastener(s).10. Position theelectronic control assembly41into position in the electronic controlhousing receiving region49in themainframe assembly84and secure with fastener(s).11. Position therear wheel11with attachedfreewheel sprocket44onto the rear fork right3and the rear fork left6and install thechain21per conventional bicycle procedures.12. Position thebattery25onto thebattery mount27and the convertible running bike is now operational in a motorized configuration.Conversion Method for External Electronic Control/Battery Mount Assembly1. Removerear wheel11via standard bicycle procedures.2. Remove fastener(s) [three bolts in an embodiment] holding theexternal battery mount180.3. Installfreewheel sprocket44ontorear wheel11per conventional bicycle procedures.4. Position thedrivetrain assembly186into the drivetrain receiving region in themainframe assembly110. Install the fastener(s) [four bolts in an embodiment] to affix thedrivetrain assembly186to the drivetrain receiving region in themainframe assembly110.5. Connect theelectric cable192from thedrivetrain assembly186to the electronic control/battery mount assembly180through themainframe assembly110while the electronic control/battery mount assembly180is positioned forward of thedowntube118.6. Remove theright side grip19from thehandlebar15and install thethrottle sensor45securely to thehandlebar15.7. Connect theelectric cable90from thethrottle sensor45through thedowntube4via normal bicycle cable routing techniques and connect theelectric cable90to the electronic control/battery mount assembly180.8. Reposition the electronic control/battery mount assembly180back onto thedowntube118and reinstall the fastener(s).9. Position therear wheel11with attachedfreewheel sprocket44onto the mainframe/rear fork right portion and the mainframe/rear fork left portion and install thechain21per conventional bicycle procedures.10. Position thebattery182onto the electronic control/battery mount assembly180and the convertible running bike is now operational in a motorized configuration.Typically, electric cycles utilize a simpler direct motor connection without a large gear reduction. However, in embodiments of the present invention, the motor andtransmission102employs a small, high rpm motor with a large planetary gear reduction and a 90 degree angle drive output, which allows for a lighter, more compact drivetrain. Additionally, combined withfreewheel sprocket44, this allows for conservation of energy, because the motor and transmission does not have to turn while coasting. This embodiment also limits rearward motion or rollback when a child stops on an upward incline. The small diameter and orientation of the motor andtransmission102allows its placement in the frame assembly to provide a centralized center of gravity, as well as a narrow profile that provides additional clearance for children's legs for use as a running cycle.In an embodiment, theCPU104may be programmed to sense the amp draw and determine whether the rider has “pushed” the bike to start the forward movement. This program feature provides an additional feature to require a rider to push the bike to start rolling, which would reduce the initial amp draw on the motor, and so theCPU104can sense that the rider started pushing the bike from zero. This feature may reduce concerns about a child grabbing and twisting the throttle, and possibly advancing forward with only one hand on the handlebars in an unsafe manner.TheCPU104may also have a sensor to determine orientation and acceleration of the running cycle. This can be utilized to limit or modify motor activity, as well as provide safety shutoff's if conditions warrant.In an embodiment, thebattery mount system180may interface with thebattery182in a mechanical or electrical manner in order to select preset motor performance.FIGS.23-25illustrate another convertible running bike in amotorized configuration201including asound system210according to an embodiment. Thesound system210may comprise a speaker, or a sound exciter or inducer. The speaker may include a battery. Thesound system210may provide sounds to a rider that could relate to entertainment or safety concerns. For example, the sound system may broadcast sounds that mimic a particular brand of motorcycle or other types of vehicle. The sounds may be variable in pitch or volume based on the speed of abike201. In an embodiment, sounds may be downloaded by a rider or an adult supervisor through the app and transmitted to thebike201.FIGS.23(a) and23(b)show an example of asound system210as mounted on anumber plate212. Thenumber plate212may be mounted on a handlebar207having aleft grip203and aright grip205. Thenumber plate212may display a number for thebike201that is used to identify the rider in a race environment for example. Thesound system210may be mounted on a portion of thenumber plate212that is facing the rider for better sound transmission to the rider. In other embodiments, the speaker may be attached in substantially any location on thebike201, while the sound exciter or inducer may be located on any surface on thebike201that is substantially semi-flat.FIG.25shows other locations for mounting thesound system210including inside abattery215which is substantially similar tobattery25. In this embodiment, the sound system may be powered by thebattery215. Thesound system210may also be mounted inside aside panel218. Additional locations are possible for mounting thesound system210on thebike201such that the sound is transmitted to a rider.FIG.26(a)andFIG.26(b)illustrate another convertible running bike in amotorized configuration201including a clutch220according to an embodiment. The clutch220may be attached ahandlebar204and adjacent to aleft grip203. In another embodiment, the clutch220could be mounted on thehandlebar204and adjacent to aright grip205. In operation in one embodiment, when a rider grasps and pulls the clutch220towards theleft grip203, power may be proportionally reduced electronically to the drivetrain to mimic a response of using a clutch on a motorcycle. Similarly, as the rider releases the clutch220, power may be proportionally increased electronically to the drivetrain.While the rider is pulling the clutch220, a sound may be transmitted through asound system210that mimics a motor revving at proportionally increasing volume such as on a motorcycle. While the rider is releasing the clutch220, a sound may be transmitted through thesound system210that mimics a motor revving at proportionally decreasing volume such as on a motorcycle. When the rider is not engaging the clutch220, a sound may be transmitted through thesound system210that mimics a motorcycle motor that is idling. In another example, the transmitted sounds may mimic sounds from a motorcycle that is involved in an actual racing start. In this embodiment, the rider may first engage the clutch220at approximately 50% level for example which causes thesound system210to correspondingly produces a simulated revving engine sound. Then, the rider may quickly release the clutch220and thesound system210correspondingly produces a high acceleration racing start sound. In other embodiments, this arrangement and operation of the clutch220and thesound system210may be employed on standard motorcycles.FIG.26also shows aGPS device223as described above which allows the remote tracking of thebike1by a supervising adult via a wireless connection such as Bluetooth, RF, Wi-Fi or other wireless protocols.FIGS.27-29illustrate another convertible running bike in amotorized configuration201including afootrest226according to an embodiment. Thefootrest226may include a front leftangled portion230and a front right angled portion228and may be connected to amainframe assembly227of thebike201withfasteners229and231. Similar to thefootrest46, the frontangled portions230and228of thefootrest226provide a gentle slope such that is a child rider is straddling thebike201and is standing directly in front of thefootrest226, if thebike201moves in the direction of the child's feet, the frontangled portions230and228cause the child's feet and/or legs to be pushed outwardly away from the bike.Similarly, thefootrest226may include a rear left angledportion235and a rear right angledportion232. The rearangled portions235and232of thefootrest226provide a gentle slope such that is a child rider is straddling thebike201and is standing directly in back of thefootrest226, if thebike201moves in the direction of the child's feet, the rearangled portions235and232cause the child's feet and/or legs to be pushed outwardly away from the bike.In an embodiment, thehandlebar204, theleft grip203and theright grip205may be scaled in various sizes to accommodate a rider's hands which are generally smaller in size and also vary. For example, the diameter of thehandlebar204may include a diameter of approximately ⅞, 1, 1.25, 1.5 and 1.75 inches.Grips203and205of corresponding sizes are used along with thehandlebar204.In various embodiments, the present invention can apply to other motorized transportation devices such as wheelchairs or strollers.Although the invention has been described with reference to the above examples, it will be understood that many modifications and variations are contemplated within the true spirit and scope of the embodiments of the invention as disclosed herein. Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which the invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore, it is to be understood that the invention shall not be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended and contemplated to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein, they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 16/943,401 filed Jul. 30, 2020, which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 15/949,026 filed Aug. 9, 2018, now U.S. Pat. No. 10,730,584, which is a Continuation-in-Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14/850,738 filed Sep. 10, 2015, which is related and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62/048,834 filed Sep. 11, 2014, each of which is assigned to the same assignee with the same inventors, and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates generally to devices used to train children to properly learn how to balance and control a two wheeled vehicle such as a bicycle or a motorcycle. Secondarily, the invention relates to devices for training children how to use a throttle and brake to control a motor driven vehicle such as a small motorcycle. The invention allows for the growth of the child's skills from initial balance, to the more complex task of combining balance, throttle control, and braking, enabled by a lightweight form, low seat height and narrow foot platform.

This section describes the background art of the disclosed embodiments of the present invention. There is no intention, either express or implied, that the background art discussed in this section legally constitutes prior art.

There have been a number of recent advancements in the techniques and devices to use to teach children how to ride a bicycle. One example has been the use of a balance bike, also called a running bike, similar to that referenced in U.S. Patent Publication No. US2010/0052287 to Mcfarland (“McFarland”). The McFarland vehicle is primarily a bicycle with a low seat height, but does not include pedals or cranks to propel the vehicle. This arrangement allows for a child to use the child's feet and legs to propel and balance the bike by walking or running, until the skill level of the user increases and the child can push and coast the bike.

Further reference may be made to the following patents; U.S. Pat. No. 8,414,007; U.S. Patent Publication No. US2014/0077470; and U.S. Pat. No. 8,794,654.

While this concept has been great at teaching very young children how to balance, the youngest age groups still lack the ability, strength and dexterity to advance to riding a standard bicycle with pedals and cranks. Thus, actually pedaling the bicycle becomes the next skill that needs to be conquered. During this transition from running bike to bicycle, often parents must simply wait for the child's motor skills to develop to the point where the child can keep their feet on the pedals while pedaling in a circular motion.

In addition to learning the basic skill of balancing on two wheels, for motorcycle riding, a child must learn the basic throttle control system through the use of twisting the throttle on the handlebar. This technique is difficult to teach, and somewhat dangerous if there is not constant adult supervision. There have been previous attempts to aid children by putting training wheels on small motorcycles, which can allow training of some balancing skills to be separated from throttle control skills. While this technique may reduce anxiety and allow earlier development, training wheels still fail to provide a completely realistic training tool for learning balance and throttle control. Further, the weight and size of the bike are concerns for smaller and younger children. Another potential problem occurs when a motorcycle may be ridden too fast before the child has a chance to acquire the skills needed to modulate the throttle, thus becoming more dangerous than necessary.

Another problem arises when attempting to provide a vehicle that has a low enough seat height so that a small child can straddle the vehicle or sit on the seat and still keep both feet on the ground. For bicycles, this problem arises because of the space required to provide the pedals and gears, while for motorcycles, the problem relates to providing a relatively large engine and other components. As a result, for both bicycles and motorcycles, the seat height must be raised to accommodate these components, thus resulting in seat heights that are too high for a child to keep both feet on the ground.

In order to better understand the invention and to see how the same may be carried out in practice, non-limiting preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:

FIG.1shows a perspective view of a convertible running bike in a non-motorized configuration, which is constructed according to an embodiment;

FIG.2is a top view of the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration) ofFIG.1;

FIG.3is a side view of the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration) ofFIG.1;

FIG.4is another side view of the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration) ofFIG.1;

FIG.5is an exploded, perspective view of the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration) ofFIG.1;

FIG.6shows a perspective view of the convertible running bike ofFIG.1in a motorized configuration;

FIG.7is a top view of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.6;

FIG.8is a side view of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.6;

FIG.9is another side view of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.6;

FIG.10is an exploded perspective view of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.6;

FIG.11shows a perspective view of an embodiment of a mainframe assembly of the convertible running bike ofFIGS.1and6;

FIG.12shows a perspective pictorial view of various components that are installed on the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration) ofFIG.1to the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.6;

FIG.13shows a block diagram of electrical components for the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.6;

FIG.14shows a perspective view of another embodiment of a mainframe assembly of the convertible running bike;

FIG.15shows an exploded perspective view of the various mainframe assembly components ofFIG.14;

FIG.16shows a perspective view of another embodiment of a mainframe assembly of the convertible running bike;

FIG.17shows an exploded perspective view of the various mainframe assembly components ofFIG.16;

FIG.18is a side view of a convertible running bike (motorized configuration) including the mainframe assembly ofFIGS.14and15, and an electronic control/battery mount assembly according to an embodiment;

FIG.19is a close-up partial side view of a section of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration) ofFIG.18;

FIG.20is a top view of the electronic control/battery mount assembly ofFIGS.14and15according to an embodiment;

FIG.21is a bottom view of the electronic control/battery mount assembly ofFIGS.14and15according to an embodiment;

FIG.22is an exploded view of the electronic control/battery mount assembly ofFIGS.14and15according to an embodiment;

FIG.23(a)andFIG.23(b)show perspective views of another convertible running bike in a motorized configuration including a sound system, which is constructed according to an embodiment;

FIG.24is a front view of the convertible running bike ofFIG.23;

FIG.25is a side view of the convertible running bike ofFIG.23;

FIG.26(a)andFIG.26(b)show perspective views of the convertible running bike ofFIG.23including a clutch, which is constructed according to an embodiment;

FIG.27(a)andFIG.27(b)shows perspective views of the convertible running bike ofFIG.23including a footrest, which is constructed according to an embodiment;

FIG.28is a side view of the convertible running bike ofFIG.27; and

FIG.29is a top view of the convertible running bike ofFIG.27.

Certain embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which some, but not all, embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed, these embodiments of the invention may be in many different forms and thus the invention should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein; rather, these embodiments are provided as illustrative examples only so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

It will be readily understood that the components of the embodiments as generally described and illustrated in the drawings herein, could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus, the following more detailed description of the certain ones of the embodiments of the system, components and method of the present invention, as represented in the drawings, is not intended to limit the scope of the invention, as claimed, but is merely representative of the embodiment of the invention.

Therefore, the present invention provides a convertible running bike with a small, electronically controlled motor in order to solve training problems found in conventional solutions. As with the logic of a simple running bike, the convertible running bike allows a child to learn to use their feet and legs to balance, propel and stop before having to learn to drive the feet in a circular pedaling motion, without being able to easily touch the ground while sitting on the seat. Further, the motorized running bike of the present invention provides a controlled way for a child to propel the bike using their hand on a throttle in a similar manner used with motorcycles. The learning process for the convertible running bike may be controlled and adapted to each child's ability by an adult. This process can be further controlled by features included in the electronic capability such as maximum rates of speed. Because a child will remain interested with these new functions, the child can enjoy the motorized running bike without becoming frustrated with the complex task of driving their legs in a circular motion before they are physically capable.

The convertible motorized running bike of the present invention is designed to be both a toy, and also a training device for both a bicycle and motorcycle. The invention has a frame that acts in a similar function to one of today's current balance bikes, with no crank set or pedals, and has a slender profile that aids with walking/balancing leg movements. In this configuration, the frame is lightweight so that a young child can have confidence in handling, controlling and lifting the bike.

Once a child has mastered the basics and is able to coast, turn, and slow down for obstacles, the frame may be fitted with a motorized propulsion system. The frame is adapted to support the addition of the motorized system components, so that the motorized version of the present invention may be controlled in manners similar to an ATV or motorcycle. The motor may be easily attached to the frame in a prefabricated motor location, and a chain may then be installed to provide propulsion to the rear wheel. The motorized version may be controlled with either a thumb throttle or twist throttle. In various embodiments, the motor is an electrical type motor that may be modulated and controlled via the throttle by the rider. In other embodiments, the motor speed and bike acceleration may be preset by an adult through a smart device application, a wireless transmitter, or a directly connected cable, mechanism or programmable key to provide an extra level of safety for the child until they acquire the appropriate skill level to control the vehicle.

As a result, a child will be able to more easily learn the mechanics and skills of motorcycle riding on a lightweight vehicle, instead of heavier and more powerful vehicle, such as a gas powered motorcycle. By having the ability to continue learning motorcycle riding skills after learning balance skills, a child can maintain fun and interest during the time period before they begin to develop the leg skill to pedal a normal bicycle. In addition, a child can gain a tremendous amount of throttle control skill and vehicle awareness before they begin to ride a heavier and faster motorcycle.

In other embodiments, the convertible running bike may have the motorized components installed and in place, but not used, thus allowing a child to learn to balance the slightly heavier bike before activating the motorized system to provide propulsion to the bike.

A convertible running bike capable of selectively converting from a non-motorized configuration to a motorized configuration may include a front fork rotatably engaged with a front wheel, a handle bar rotatably engaged with the front fork for steering the bike, a frame and a seat connected to the frame. The frame may include a down tube portion connected to the front fork, a rear fork rotatably engaged with a rear wheel, a drivetrain receiving region for selectively receiving a drivetrain assembly, and a battery mount for selectively receiving a battery.

The convertible running bike may also include a drivetrain assembly disposed within the drivetrain receiving region and having a first sprocket, an electronic controller disposed within an electronic control housing receiving region and coupled to the drivetrain assembly, a battery disposed within the battery mount, a throttle sensor coupled to the electronic controller, a second sprocket connected to the rear wheel, a chain connected to the first sprocket and the second sprocket. In response to an input to the throttle sensor, the electronic controller causes the drivetrain assembly to rotate the first sprocket, the first sprocket driving the chain, and the chain rotating the second sprocket and the rear wheel and the convertible running bike operates in the motorized configuration.

In an embodiment, the bike may include a footrest. The drivetrain assembly may include a brush motor or a brushless motor. The frame may include a left portion and a right portion.

In another embodiment, a running bike capable of selectively converting from a non-motorized configuration to a motorized configuration may include a front fork rotatably engaged with a front wheel, a handle bar rotatably engaged with the front fork for steering the bike, a frame and a seat connected to the frame. The frame may include a down tube portion connected to the front fork, a rear fork rotatably engaged with a rear wheel, a drivetrain receiving region for selectively receiving a drivetrain assembly, a battery mount for selectively receiving a battery, such that the convertible running bike operates in the non-motorized configuration. In an embodiment, the bike may include a footrest. The frame may include a left portion and a right portion.

In a further embodiment, a method of selectively converting a convertible running bike from a non-motorized configuration to a motorized configuration where the convertible running bike includes a front fork rotatably engaged with a front wheel, a handle bar rotatably engaged with the front fork for steering the bike, a frame including a down tube portion connected to the front fork, a rear fork rotatably engaged with a rear wheel, a drivetrain receiving region for selectively receiving a drivetrain assembly, a battery mount for selectively receiving a battery; and a seat connected to the frame. The method may include disposing a drivetrain assembly having a first sprocket within the drivetrain receiving region, disposing an electronic controller within an electronic control housing receiving region and coupling to the drivetrain assembly, disposing a battery within the battery mount, coupling a throttle sensor to the electronic controller, connecting a second sprocket to the rear wheel, connecting a chain to the first sprocket and the second sprocket. In response to an input to the throttle sensor, the electronic controller causes the drivetrain assembly to rotate the first sprocket, the first sprocket driving the chain, and the chain rotating the second sprocket and the rear wheel, and the convertible running bike operates in the motorized configuration.

A convertible running bike without pedals for riding by a child capable of selectively converting from a non-motorized configuration to a motorized configuration may include a front fork rotatably engaged with a front wheel, a handle bar rotatably engaged with the front fork for steering the bike, a frame, a footrest and a seat connected to the frame. The frame may include a down tube portion connected to the front fork, a rear fork rotatably engaged with a rear wheel, a drivetrain receiving region for selectively receiving a longitudinal drivetrain assembly, an electronic control housing for selectively receiving an electronic control assembly, and a battery mount for selectively receiving a battery. The bike may also include a footrest for causing the child's feet or legs to be pushed outwardly away from the running bike.

In an embodiment, the convertible running bike may also include a drivetrain assembly disposed within the drivetrain receiving region and having a first sprocket, an electronic controller disposed within an electronic control housing receiving region and coupled to the drivetrain assembly, a battery disposed within the battery mount, a throttle sensor coupled to the electronic controller, a second sprocket connected to the rear wheel, a chain connected to the first sprocket and the second sprocket. In response to an input to the throttle sensor, the electronic controller causes the drivetrain assembly to rotate the first sprocket, the first sprocket driving the chain, and the chain rotating the second sprocket and the rear wheel and the convertible running bike operates in the motorized configuration.

In an embodiment, the footrest may include an angled front portion for causing the child's feet or legs to be pushed outwardly away from the running bike. The footrest may further include an angled rear portion for causing the child's feet or legs to be pushed outwardly away from the running bike.

In an embodiment, the bike may include a sound system. In various embodiments, the sound system may be attached to a number plate or disposed within the battery. In another embodiment, the bike further includes a left side panel and a right side panel attached to the frame, and the sound system is disposed within the left and right side panels.

In an embodiment, the bike may include a clutch attached to the handlebar such that the operation of the clutch by the rider creates sounds that mimic a motorcycle or other vehicle, or creates other sounds.

In an embodiment, the handlebar further includes a diameter which may comprise various sizes based on the size of a rider's hands.

Referring now toFIGS.1-5of the drawings, aconvertible running bike1may be constructed according to a non-motorized embodiment and includes amainframe assembly84having a steeringtube2connected to adown tube4. The downtube4is connected to a mainframeright portion9and a mainframe leftportion5. The mainframeright portion9is connected to a rear fork right3and the mainframe leftportion5is connected to rear fork left6. Arear wheel11is rotatably connected to the rear fork left6and rear fork right3by conventional bicycle axle hardware such as nuts, bolts and bearings that will not be described in detail. A conventional brake, such asdisc brake95, may be attached to therear wheel11. Other brake mechanisms may be employed such as a drum brake. Similarly, afront wheel12is connected to afront fork assembly14, which passes through asteering tube2and connects to thehandlebars15having aleft grip18and aright grip19. Aseat20is connected to the mainframe leftportion5and the mainframeright portion9through anadjustable seat tube10. Theseat20is adjustable for children of different ages and heights. The seat height is adjustable to account for both comfort considerations for the child, but also to provide an optimum height where the child may be able to straddle the bike, either sitting in the seat or standing, and still keep both feet on the ground. In an embodiment, thesteering tube2, thehandlebars15, thegrips18and19, theseat20and the adjustable seat tube may comprise conventional bicycle components, thus providing a more inexpensive manufacturing process.

FIG.2illustrates the slim nature of the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration), which is designed to allow for a young child to straddle the running bike and perform an easy running motion of the legs. The orientation of thegrips18and19, and in embodiments of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration), eithergrip18and19may function as a throttle input from the child rider. As shown inFIG.6, theright grip19to may be integrated with athrottle sensor45. In an embodiment for the convertible running bike (motorized configuration), thethrottle sensor45may be set in a mode where a child could twist the throttle around its longitudinal circumference in order to adjust the amount of power provided to an electric motor, or other type of propulsion system. In another embodiment for the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration), thethrottle sensor45may be locked in a stationary mode to provide a stationary grip when not being used to modulate the electric motor.

Also shown isfootrest46attached to aplate150disposed on the bottom of the mainframe leftportion5and the mainframeright portion9to provide a location for a child to rest their feet during coasting or propulsion. Further, thefootrest46is shaped narrow enough with gentle angles to provide non-traumatic surfaces to the legs while the child balances and runs with the bike. More specifically, thefootrest46includes anangled front portion80and an angledrear portion81that provide a gentle slope such that if a child is straddling theconvertible running bike1and is standing either directly in front of or behind thefootrest46, if the bike moves in the direction of child's feet, theangled front portion80or the angledrear portion81cause the child's feet and/or legs to be pushed outwardly away from the bike. Therefore, unlike a conventional bicycle with pedals or motorcycle with footpegs, thefootrest46will not tend to strike and potentially injure the child's feet and/or legs.

FIG.5shows the convertible running bike (non-motorized configuration) with an exploded view of the interior space of themainframe assembly84provided by the rear fork left6, the rear fork right3, the mainframe leftportion5, the mainframeright portion9and thedown tube4. In an embodiment, an electronic controlhousing receiving region49defines an area designed to receive, selectively attach and protect electrical components for the convertible running bike (motorized configuration), such as theelectronic control assembly41shown inFIG.10. In an embodiment, adrivetrain receiving region50defines an area to receive, selectively attach and protect adrivetrain assembly36, such as shown inFIGS.10and12. Thedrivetrain assembly36consists of an electrical motor andtransmission102that is controlled by theelectrical control system41illustrated inFIG.12. In an embodiment, theelectrical motor102may be a brush motor or a brushless motor, or other motor of similar function. In an embodiment, anexternal battery mount27is connected to thedown tube4and is designed to selectively receive abattery25. Also shown is an internalbattery receiving region51for receiving a battery inside themainframe assembly84in another embodiment.

FIGS.6-10andFIG.12illustrate the components of the electrical drive system of the convertible running bike (motorized configuration). In a motorized configuration, the convertible running bike can perform in a similar manner and maintain all the functions of a running bike as when the convertible running bike is in non-motorized configuration, whether or not the propulsion is engaged. In various embodiments, some or all of the components described may be included by a user for use as a running bike, but not including other components, such as not including thebattery25, for example. In an embodiment, a shut-off switch may be provided to allow the running bike with some or all of the drivetrain components to operate as a running bike in a freewheel status.

Afreewheel sprocket44is rotatably attached in a conventional technique to therear wheel11. In an embodiment, thefreewheel sprocket44may comprise a BMX freewheel sprocket. For theconvertible running bike1in the motorized configuration, achain21is selectively connected between thesprocket44and asprocket100disposed on thedrivetrain assembly36. The purpose of thechain21is to transfer force from thesprocket100to thesprocket44, which in turn forces therear wheel11to rotate and move thebike1. Because of the gear reduction of the motor andtransmission102, combined with thefreewheel sprocket44, rearward motion is limited. In an embodiment, thesprocket44and thesprocket100may comprise conventional parts, such as bicycle sprockets. Further, thedrivetrain assembly36is not limited to a chain drive system, but may also comprise a belt drive, shaft drive or other drive mechanism.

FIGS.6-10illustrate theconvertible running bike1in a motorized configuration.FIG.10shows the internal placement of the electrical and mechanical drive system of the bike in the motorized configuration. In an embodiment, anelectronic control assembly41is selectively and electronically coupled on top of and adjacent to thedrivetrain assembly36. In an embodiment, thebattery25may be selectively engaged with thebattery mount27on the exterior of themainframe assembly84and electrically coupled toelectronic control assembly41. Theelectronic control assembly41, thedrivetrain assembly36, thebattery mount27and theexternal battery25may be connected to themainframe assembly84and/or each other using conventional attachment devices, such as nut and bolt assemblies, so that these components may be easily installed or uninstalled by an adult by using conventional household tools.

FIG.11shows a close-up perspective view of an embodiment of aframe assembly84of theconvertible running bike1as shown inFIGS.1-10. Theframe assembly84provides a compact protective shield for the various electrical and mechanical components that may be installed within theassembly84.

FIG.12provides an exploded view of the various components that may be installed in order to convert theconvertible running bike1from a non-motorized configuration to a motorized configuration. In an embodiment,electric cable90selectively couples thethrottle sensor45with the electronic theelectronic control assembly41;electric cables92and94selectively couple thebattery25through theexternal battery mount27to theelectronic control assembly41; andelectric cables96and98selectively couple thedrivetrain36to theelectronic control assembly41. In an embodiment, thethrottle sensor45is coupled to theelectronic control assembly41, which in an embodiment comprises a central processing unit/receiver (CPU)104coupled to an electronic speed control (ESC)106. Also shown is thechain21selectively connected between thesprocket100and thesprocket44.

FIG.14andFIG.15show an exploded view and a perspective view respectively of another embodiment of amainframe assembly110of the convertible running bike. While this embodiment is similar to themainframe assembly84, the mainframe portions and rear forks have been combined into a mainframe/rear fork leftportion112and a mainframe/rear forkright portion114in order to provide a more efficient mainframe and ease of manufacturing. Themainframe assembly110further comprises asteering tube116connected to adown tube118, which is connected to the mainframe/rear fork leftportion112and the mainframe/rear forkright portion114.Steering tube116and downtube118are substantially similar tosteering tube2anddowntube4discussed above. In an embodiment,plate120andseat tube122are attached todrivetrain assembly mount124. Theplate120is used to attach a footrest similar tofootrest46, theseat tube122is used to attach a seat similar toseat20and thedrivetrain assembly mount124is used to attach a drivetrain assembly similar todrivetrain assembly36.

FIG.16andFIG.17show a perspective view and an exploded perspective view respectively of another embodiment of amainframe assembly160of the convertible running bike. While this embodiment is similar to themainframe assemblies84and110, the mainframe portions, the rear forks and the down tube have been combined into a mainframe/rear fork/down tube leftportion162and a mainframe/rear fork/down tuberight portion164in order to provide a more efficient mainframe and ease of manufacturing. Themainframe assembly160further comprises asteering tube166connected to the mainframe/rear fork/down tube leftportion162and the mainframe/rear fork/down tuberight portion164.Steering tube166is substantially similar tosteering tube2discussed above. In an embodiment,plate172andseat tube170are attached to drivetrainassembly mount components168and169respectively. Theplate172is used to attach a footrest similar tofootrest46, theseat tube170is used to attach a seat similar toseat20and the drivetrainassembly mount components168and169are used to attach a drivetrain assembly similar todrivetrain assembly36.

As illustrated in the schematic diagram inFIG.13, thethrottle sensor45is coupled to theelectronic control assembly41, which in an embodiment comprises the central processing unit/receiver (CPU)104coupled to the electronic speed control (ESC)106. In an embodiment, theCPU104receives a signal from thethrottle sensor45based on an input from a rider. The signal is then transmitted to theESC106which controls the delivery of power from thebattery25provided to themotor102. In an embodiment, theESC106includes a microcontroller device.

FIGS.18-22illustrate a convertible running bike (motorized configuration) including themainframe assembly110ofFIGS.14and15, and a combined electronic control/battery mount assembly180according to an embodiment. The electronic control/battery mount assembly180comprises substantially similar components as theelectronic control assembly41and theexternal battery mount27as discussed above. In an embodiment, adrivetrain assembly186is selectively connected to thedrivetrain assembly mount124and to the electronic control/battery mount assembly180viacable192.Battery182is selectively coupled to the electronic control/battery mount assembly180.

In the close-up and exploded views ofFIGS.18-22, the electronic control/battery mount assembly180comprises a combined central processing unit/receiver/electronic speed control (CPU/ESC)183that performs in a substantially similar fashion to the central processing unit/receiver (CPU)104and the electronic speed control (ESC)106discussed above. The CPU/ESC183is electronically coupled to thebattery182viacables188and190. The electronic control/battery mount assembly180is attached to thedown tube118with fastener(s) such asfastening components186.

In an embodiment of theconvertible running bike1in the motorized configuration,FIG.13also includes an optional external direct connect orwireless device108that may be used to connect, wired or wirelessly, to an external smart device or computer to allow programming and/or real-time external control of the propulsion system. In this embodiment, the external direct connect orwireless device108allows an adult to set theconvertible running bike1to be safely powered at a speed that is less than the ability of the child. In an embodiment, this speed control function may also be accomplished through direct control on theconvertible running bike1through methods such as providing a screw setting or knob (not shown) on thebike1. TheCPU104may connect to an external wireless transmitter/receiver that can communicate with theCPU104via Bluetooth, RF or other wireless protocols. In addition, theconvertible running bike1may include a function that allows a supervising adult to provide a power limit or cut-off for thebike1if it travels out of a specified range, or if the adult feels the child needs to be stopped or slowed down.

In an embodiment, theCPU104may include a GPS navigation device (shown inFIG.26as223). The GPS device allows the remote tracking of thebike1by a supervising adult via a wireless connection such as Bluetooth, RF, Wi-Fi or other wireless protocols. The GPS device may be used to track location of the bike1(orbike201inFIG.26) in various environments such as on a track. When a rider is going around the track, the GPS may send location and speed data though the wireless connection. This data may be used to provide monitoring of race speeds by registering race track lap times or calculating position of racers on the track.

In an embodiment, an application (app) for a smart device such as a phone or tablet may be downloaded by a supervising adult to receive data transmitted from thebike1such as location and speed data based on GPS device readings. In another embodiment, theCPU104may transmit reliability data concerning the usage and status of thedrivetrain assembly186or other components for monitoring of service requirements for thebike1. The reliability status data may be transmitted at preset programmed intervals or on command from instructions from a supervising adult or service personnel.

Embodiments are shown below of the methods of converting theconvertible running bike1from a non-motorized configuration into a motorized configuration. All of the steps below may be accomplished using conventional tools located in homes.

Conversion Method for Internal Electronic Control Assembly/External Battery Mount

1. Removerear wheel11via standard bicycle procedures.

2. Remove fastener(s) [three bolts in an embodiment] holding theexternal battery mount27.

3. Installfreewheel sprocket44ontorear wheel11per conventional bicycle procedures.

4. Position thedrivetrain assembly36into thedrivetrain receiving region50in themainframe assembly84. Install the fastener(s) [four bolts in an embodiment] to affix thedrivetrain assembly36to thedrivetrain receiving region50in themainframe assembly84.

5. Connect theelectric cables96and98from thedrivetrain assembly36to theelectronic control assembly41through themainframe assembly84while the speedelectronic control assembly41is positioned aft of its final position in thedrivetrain receiving region50.

6. Remove theright side grip19from thehandlebar15and install thethrottle sensor45securely to thehandlebar15.

7. Connect theelectric cable90from thethrottle sensor45through thedowntube4via normal bicycle cable routing techniques and connect theelectric cable90to theelectronic control assembly41.

8. Connect theelectric cables92and94from thebattery mount27through thedowntube4to theelectronic control assembly41.

9. Reposition thebattery mount27back onto thedowntube4and reinstall the fastener(s).

10. Position theelectronic control assembly41into position in the electronic controlhousing receiving region49in themainframe assembly84and secure with fastener(s).

11. Position therear wheel11with attachedfreewheel sprocket44onto the rear fork right3and the rear fork left6and install thechain21per conventional bicycle procedures.

12. Position thebattery25onto thebattery mount27and the convertible running bike is now operational in a motorized configuration.

Conversion Method for External Electronic Control/Battery Mount Assembly

1. Removerear wheel11via standard bicycle procedures.

2. Remove fastener(s) [three bolts in an embodiment] holding theexternal battery mount180.

3. Installfreewheel sprocket44ontorear wheel11per conventional bicycle procedures.

4. Position thedrivetrain assembly186into the drivetrain receiving region in themainframe assembly110. Install the fastener(s) [four bolts in an embodiment] to affix thedrivetrain assembly186to the drivetrain receiving region in themainframe assembly110.

5. Connect theelectric cable192from thedrivetrain assembly186to the electronic control/battery mount assembly180through themainframe assembly110while the electronic control/battery mount assembly180is positioned forward of thedowntube118.

6. Remove theright side grip19from thehandlebar15and install thethrottle sensor45securely to thehandlebar15.

7. Connect theelectric cable90from thethrottle sensor45through thedowntube4via normal bicycle cable routing techniques and connect theelectric cable90to the electronic control/battery mount assembly180.

8. Reposition the electronic control/battery mount assembly180back onto thedowntube118and reinstall the fastener(s).

9. Position therear wheel11with attachedfreewheel sprocket44onto the mainframe/rear fork right portion and the mainframe/rear fork left portion and install thechain21per conventional bicycle procedures.

10. Position thebattery182onto the electronic control/battery mount assembly180and the convertible running bike is now operational in a motorized configuration.

Typically, electric cycles utilize a simpler direct motor connection without a large gear reduction. However, in embodiments of the present invention, the motor andtransmission102employs a small, high rpm motor with a large planetary gear reduction and a 90 degree angle drive output, which allows for a lighter, more compact drivetrain. Additionally, combined withfreewheel sprocket44, this allows for conservation of energy, because the motor and transmission does not have to turn while coasting. This embodiment also limits rearward motion or rollback when a child stops on an upward incline. The small diameter and orientation of the motor andtransmission102allows its placement in the frame assembly to provide a centralized center of gravity, as well as a narrow profile that provides additional clearance for children's legs for use as a running cycle.

In an embodiment, theCPU104may be programmed to sense the amp draw and determine whether the rider has “pushed” the bike to start the forward movement. This program feature provides an additional feature to require a rider to push the bike to start rolling, which would reduce the initial amp draw on the motor, and so theCPU104can sense that the rider started pushing the bike from zero. This feature may reduce concerns about a child grabbing and twisting the throttle, and possibly advancing forward with only one hand on the handlebars in an unsafe manner.

TheCPU104may also have a sensor to determine orientation and acceleration of the running cycle. This can be utilized to limit or modify motor activity, as well as provide safety shutoff's if conditions warrant.

In an embodiment, thebattery mount system180may interface with thebattery182in a mechanical or electrical manner in order to select preset motor performance.

FIGS.23-25illustrate another convertible running bike in amotorized configuration201including asound system210according to an embodiment. Thesound system210may comprise a speaker, or a sound exciter or inducer. The speaker may include a battery. Thesound system210may provide sounds to a rider that could relate to entertainment or safety concerns. For example, the sound system may broadcast sounds that mimic a particular brand of motorcycle or other types of vehicle. The sounds may be variable in pitch or volume based on the speed of abike201. In an embodiment, sounds may be downloaded by a rider or an adult supervisor through the app and transmitted to thebike201.

FIGS.23(a) and23(b)show an example of asound system210as mounted on anumber plate212. Thenumber plate212may be mounted on a handlebar207having aleft grip203and aright grip205. Thenumber plate212may display a number for thebike201that is used to identify the rider in a race environment for example. Thesound system210may be mounted on a portion of thenumber plate212that is facing the rider for better sound transmission to the rider. In other embodiments, the speaker may be attached in substantially any location on thebike201, while the sound exciter or inducer may be located on any surface on thebike201that is substantially semi-flat.

FIG.25shows other locations for mounting thesound system210including inside abattery215which is substantially similar tobattery25. In this embodiment, the sound system may be powered by thebattery215. Thesound system210may also be mounted inside aside panel218. Additional locations are possible for mounting thesound system210on thebike201such that the sound is transmitted to a rider.

FIG.26(a)andFIG.26(b)illustrate another convertible running bike in amotorized configuration201including a clutch220according to an embodiment. The clutch220may be attached ahandlebar204and adjacent to aleft grip203. In another embodiment, the clutch220could be mounted on thehandlebar204and adjacent to aright grip205. In operation in one embodiment, when a rider grasps and pulls the clutch220towards theleft grip203, power may be proportionally reduced electronically to the drivetrain to mimic a response of using a clutch on a motorcycle. Similarly, as the rider releases the clutch220, power may be proportionally increased electronically to the drivetrain.

While the rider is pulling the clutch220, a sound may be transmitted through asound system210that mimics a motor revving at proportionally increasing volume such as on a motorcycle. While the rider is releasing the clutch220, a sound may be transmitted through thesound system210that mimics a motor revving at proportionally decreasing volume such as on a motorcycle. When the rider is not engaging the clutch220, a sound may be transmitted through thesound system210that mimics a motorcycle motor that is idling. In another example, the transmitted sounds may mimic sounds from a motorcycle that is involved in an actual racing start. In this embodiment, the rider may first engage the clutch220at approximately 50% level for example which causes thesound system210to correspondingly produces a simulated revving engine sound. Then, the rider may quickly release the clutch220and thesound system210correspondingly produces a high acceleration racing start sound. In other embodiments, this arrangement and operation of the clutch220and thesound system210may be employed on standard motorcycles.

FIG.26also shows aGPS device223as described above which allows the remote tracking of thebike1by a supervising adult via a wireless connection such as Bluetooth, RF, Wi-Fi or other wireless protocols.

FIGS.27-29illustrate another convertible running bike in amotorized configuration201including afootrest226according to an embodiment. Thefootrest226may include a front leftangled portion230and a front right angled portion228and may be connected to amainframe assembly227of thebike201withfasteners229and231. Similar to thefootrest46, the frontangled portions230and228of thefootrest226provide a gentle slope such that is a child rider is straddling thebike201and is standing directly in front of thefootrest226, if thebike201moves in the direction of the child's feet, the frontangled portions230and228cause the child's feet and/or legs to be pushed outwardly away from the bike.

Similarly, thefootrest226may include a rear left angledportion235and a rear right angledportion232. The rearangled portions235and232of thefootrest226provide a gentle slope such that is a child rider is straddling thebike201and is standing directly in back of thefootrest226, if thebike201moves in the direction of the child's feet, the rearangled portions235and232cause the child's feet and/or legs to be pushed outwardly away from the bike.

In an embodiment, thehandlebar204, theleft grip203and theright grip205may be scaled in various sizes to accommodate a rider's hands which are generally smaller in size and also vary. For example, the diameter of thehandlebar204may include a diameter of approximately ⅞, 1, 1.25, 1.5 and 1.75 inches.Grips203and205of corresponding sizes are used along with thehandlebar204.

In various embodiments, the present invention can apply to other motorized transportation devices such as wheelchairs or strollers.

Although the invention has been described with reference to the above examples, it will be understood that many modifications and variations are contemplated within the true spirit and scope of the embodiments of the invention as disclosed herein. Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which the invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore, it is to be understood that the invention shall not be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended and contemplated to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein, they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.