DESCRIPTION:
BACKGROUNDThis disclosure relates to a remote control for operating a sound output device.There are a number of sound output devices on the market today to which a portable multimedia storage device (e.g. an iPhone®) can be mechanically and electrically connected. An example of such a sound output device is a SoundDock® II digital music system (DMS) sold by Bose Corp. When an iPhone® is inserted into a dock in the DMS, audio files (e.g. music) stored in the iPhone can be transmitted to and played out loud by the DMS. A user of the DMS would typically use an associated remote control to control playing of the audio files. As such, the user is often located at a distance from the DMS. When the iPhone® receives a phone call or the user wants to make a phone call, the user will need to first walk over to the DMS and then remove the iPhone from the DMS. At the conclusion of the call, the user would need to reinsert the iPhone® into the DMS to continue listening to audio file via the DMS. Having to take all of these steps to take or make a phone call is inconvenient to say the least. These issues can be present in other types of DMSs besides the SoundDock® II and with other types of portable multimedia storage device besides the iPhone®.The iPhone® also has voice recognition capabilities. As such, a person can say a command for controlling audio play back such as “next track”, and the iPhone will react by starting to play a next track in a current sequence of audio files. As the person gets further away from the iPhone®, the ability of the voice recognition system to operate correctly decreases. Having to remain relatively close to the iPhone® in order to use the voice recognition system is problematic.Remote controls usually have replaceable batteries. When the batteries run low on electrical power, they must be replaced. If the user of the remote control does not have the correct size spare batteries on hand, the remote control will not be able to be used to operate its associated device. It would be nice to have a remote control with a rechargeable battery which can conveniently be recharged.The DMS mentioned above cannot wirelessly receive audio files for playback. Portable multimedia storage devices are entering the market with the ability to wirelessly transmit audio files. It would be nice if non-wireless DMSs could be conveniently retrofitted so that they could wirelessly receive audio files for playback.SUMMARYIn one aspect, a remote control for a sound system includes a first type of wireless system for transmitting commands for controlling operation of a sound output device. The remote control also includes a second type of wireless system for wirelessly transmitting signals that represent sounds created by a first human voice to a first portable audio storage device which can be electrically temporarily connected to the sound output device.Embodiments may include one or more of the following features. The first type of wireless system operates in the infrared band. The second type of wireless system operates in the radio frequency band. The first portable audio storage device includes a voice user interface feature that reacts to the signals by controlling output of audio signals stored on the first portable audio storage device for reproduction by the sound output device. The remote control may further include a rechargeable battery that can be recharged when the remote control is connected to the sound output device. The remote control may further include a microphone for capturing the first human voice and a speaker for reproducing a second human voice which has been wirelessly received by the remote control from the first portable audio storage device (the first portable audio storage device having wirelessly received the second human voice from a remote location). When the first portable audio storage device is not electrically connected to the sound output device, the remote control may be electrically temporarily connected to the sound output device at a same location as where the first portable audio storage device connects to the sound output device. The second wireless system wirelessly may receive audio signals from the first portable audio storage device. The second wireless system may wirelessly receive audio signals from a second portable audio storage device that is different from the first portable audio storage device.In another aspect, a sound system includes a sound output device including a speaker for producing sounds, and a remote control for transmitting wireless commands over a first wireless system for controlling operation of the sound output device. The sound system also includes a dock to which the remote control and a first portable audio storage device can be interchangeably electrically connected.Embodiments may include one or more of the following features. The remote control includes a second wireless system capable of receiving wireless audio signals and providing said wireless audio signals to the sound system when the remote control is electrically connected to the sound system. The wireless audio signals are received by the remote control from the first portable audio storage device. The wireless audio signals are received by the remote control from a second portable audio storage device which is different from the first portable audio storage device. When the remote control is electrically connected to the dock, a rechargeable battery in the remote control is electrically charged. When the portable audio storage device is connected to the dock, the remote control can wirelessly transmit signals representing sounds created by a first human voice to the portable audio storage device. The portable multimedia storage device can wirelessly transmit audio signals representing sounds created by a second human voice to the remote control.In yet another aspect, a method of operating a sound system includes the steps of providing a sound output device that includes a dock and temporarily electrically connecting one of a remote control device and a first portable audio storage device to the dock. Audio signals are wirelessly received at the remote control when the remote control is connected to the dock. Signals representing a first human voice from the remote control are wirelessly transmitted to the first portable audio device when the first portable audio device is connected to the dock.Embodiments may include one or more of the following features. The remote control uses a same wireless system for receiving audio signals as is used to transmit the human voice signals to the first portable audio storage device. When the remote control is connected to the dock, the audio signals are used by the sound output device to create sound. When the first portable audio storage device is connected to the dock, the human voice signals received by the first portable audio storage device from the remote control are used by a voice user interface feature of the first portable audio storage device to control output of audio signals stored on the first portable audio storage device. Signals representing a second human voice are transmitted from the first portable audio storage device to the remote control when the first portable audio device is connected to the dock.In still another aspect, a remote control for a sound output device includes a connector for electrically connecting the remote control to the sound output device. The remote control operates as a first type of wireless device when the remote control is connected to the sound output device, and operates as a second type of wireless device when the remote control is not connected to the sound output device.Embodiments may include one or more of the following features. The first type of wireless device is a wireless receiver for receiving wireless audio signals. The second type of wireless device is a wireless communications headset which includes both a speaker and a microphone. A rechargeable battery in the remote control can be charged when the remote control is connected to the sound output device. A portable audio storage device which can provide audio signals to the sound output device for reproduction can be electrically connected to the sound output device by a connector of the sound output device when the remote control is not connected to the connector of the sound output device.In still another aspect, an apparatus includes a housing and a first control surface, associated with the housing, for wirelessly controlling output of audio signals from a portable audio storage device connected to a sound output device. Also included are a microphone and speaker, associated with the housing, that are engaged when the apparatus is being used to participate in a wireless phone call.An embodiment may include the following feature. A second control surface is included that is involved in one or more of initiating a wireless phone call and ending a wireless phone call.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSFIG. 1is a perspective view of a remote control;FIG. 2is a schematic block diagram of the functional aspects of the remote control ofFIG. 1;FIG. 3is a front view of the remote control ofFIG. 1, a portable audio storage device, and a sound output device;FIG. 4is a front view of the remote control ofFIG. 1, the portable audio storage device and a sound output device ofFIG. 3, and an additional portable audio storage device; andFIG. 5is a schematic diagram of another example of a sound output device.DETAILED DESCRIPTIONReferring toFIGS. 1 and 3, aremote control10includes ahousing12and a voice command/phone button (control surface)14. Operation ofbutton14will be explained in further detail below. Agroup15of eight buttons (control surfaces)16,18,20,22,24,26,28and30control operation of (i) a sound output device32(in this example a SoundDock® II digital music system by Bose Corp.) of asound system33, and (ii) a first portable audio storage device34(in this example an iPhone device, iPhone is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries). Thesound output device32includes one or more speakers (not shown) for producing sounds. A female thirty pin connector on the bottom of thedevice34electrically temporarily connectsdevice34to thedevice32via a male thirty pin connector (not shown) in adock35. In this example thedock35is physically part of thesound output device32. Thedevice34also includes a wireless telephone system such as a cellular device such that thedevice34can be used to wirelessly make and receive telephone calls.With reference toFIG. 1, thebutton16turns off both thesound output device32andaudio storage device34when pressed if both devices are in an on state.Button18increases the volume of thesound output device32when pressed, andbutton20decreases the volume of thesound output device32when pressed. To return to the beginning of an audio track stored ondevice34,button22is pressed once. To quickly scan backward through a track stored ondevice34, press and holdbutton22. To skip to the beginning of a previous track stored ondevice34,press button22twice. To skip to a next track stored ondevice34,press button30once. To quickly scan through a track stored ondevice34, press and holdbutton30. To skip forward to a next playlist stored ondevice34,press button26. To skip back to a previous playlist stored ondevice34,press button28. To pause audio being played bydevice34,press button24once. To resume play,press button24again. Whendevices32and34are off, pressing any ofbuttons18,20,22,26,28or30will wake updevices32and34but will not cause audio to start playing. Whendevices32and34are off, pressingbutton24will wake updevices32and34and will cause audio to start playing. This paragraph describes one way in which the group ofbuttons15can be mapped to control functions on thedevices32and34. Other arrangements of buttons or control surfaces (e.g. touch sensitive surfaces) can be used to control the functions of thedevices32and34.Referring toFIGS. 2-3, pressing any of the buttons ingroup15signals a microprocessor (up)36to cause a first type ofwireless system38of the remote control to transmit a wireless command for controlling operation ofdevices32and/or34. In this example,system38includes an infra red (IR) transmitter which operates in the IR band and sends commands to an IR receiver in thesound output device32. A different type of wireless system besides IR can be used forsystem38. If the command is for thedevice32, thendevice32executes the command. If the command is for thedevice34, thendevice32transmits the command through an electrical connection to thedevice34which executes the command. Alternatively, commands fordevice34can be received directly bydevice34. If the command is for bothdevices32and34, then bothdevices32and34execute the command. If two-way communication is desired between thedevice32and theremote control10, the IR transmitter is replaced with an IR transceiver.Turning toFIG. 2,remote control10includes a second type ofwireless system40, which in this example includes a Bluetooth two-way radio frequency (RF) communication system (preferably class 1 or 2). Bluetooth specification documents can be obtained by writing to Bluetooth SIG, Inc., 5209 Lake Washington Blvd. NE, Suite 350, Kirkland, Wash. 98033, or calling (425) 691-3535, or downloading the documents from this web address: http://www.bluetooth.com/English/Technology/Building/Pages/Specifcation.aspx.System40operates in the RF band and is used for wirelessly transmitting signals that represent sounds from a first human voice from theremote control10to the device34(FIG. 3). Theremote control10also includes a speaker42(seeFIG. 2) which creates sound waves that pass through openings44(FIG. 1) in thehousing12. Thespeaker42is used to reproduce the sound of a second human voice from a corresponding signal representing this voice which was wirelessly received by the remote control from the device34(thedevice34having wirelessly received signals representing the second human voice over a cellular phone system from a remote location). Further included in theremote control10is amicrophone46and a female thirtypin connector48. Themicrophone46receives sound waves from the environment external to thehousing12through the30pin connector48. Alternatively, openings (not shown) in thehousing12similar to theopenings44may be provided in the vicinity of themicrophone46to allow sound waves outside thehousing12to reach themicrophone46. The microphone is used to electronically capture the sounds created by a human voice and pass the resulting signals tosystem40for wireless transmission to thedevice34. Theremote control10also includes a battery orbatteries50which are preferably rechargeable.Referring toFIG. 3, when theremote control10anddevice34are first used together, the Bluetooth systems in the remote control anddevice34must be paired with each other. This generally happens automatically when theremote control10anddevice34both have their Bluetooth radios turned on and are located in the same room (for class 2 Bluetooth) or within the same house (for class 1 Bluetooth). If automatic pairing does not happen, the user will typically enter a four digit code (e.g. 0000 or 1234) intodevice34. This code will be provided, for example, in the owner's guide for theremote control10. After the initial pairing of theremote control10and thedevice34, these two components should automatically connect with each other whenever they are brought into the vicinity of each other (e.g. same room or same house as described above). Theremote control10is set as a Bluetooth headset which is a type of wireless device.With reference toFIGS. 1-3, when the portableaudio storage device34is connected to thesound output device32as described above, the group ofbuttons15can be used to control playback of audio signals stored ondevice34by device32(see above). In addition, thebutton14can be used to activate a voice user interface (UI) system in thedevice34. Thebutton14may be a multifunction button, where the operation controlled by a press of thebutton14depends on the state of thedevice34. For example, when thedevice34is not currently processing a cellular call, pressing thebutton14may initiate a voice UI on thedevice34. Subsequent spoken commands into theremote control10are then used to control thedevice34. Any voice UI function available on thedevice34may be controlled by voice commands issued by theremote control10provided thedevice34exposes its voice API. Alternatively, thesound output device32could reproduce voice signals received from thedevice34which originated at theremote control10. As such the voice UI functions of thedevice34are accessed as if the user were directly speaking into thedevice34.When thebutton14is pressed, a wireless signal is sent to thedevice34indicating that a voice-UI command should be received soon. The user then states a command at theremote control10such as “fast forward” or “next track”. This vocal command is picked up by themicrophone46in theremote control10. Signals from themicrophone46that represent the sounds of the human voice of the user are wirelessly transmitted by thewireless system40to thedevice34. Thedevice34recognizes and executes the command. As such, signals (representing a human voice) received by thedevice34from theremote control10are used by the voice UI feature of thedevice34to control output of audio signals stored on thedevice34.A user can also initiate a cellular phone call by pressingbutton14and then stating, for example, “call Kim” at theremote control10. As already described, this command is transmitted to thedevice34which executes the command by dialing the phone number for Kim which had been previously stored in thedevice34. If the phone call is answered, the user speaks into themicrophone46to talk to Kim and listens to sounds from thespeaker42to hear Kim's voice. As such, signals representing two human voices are transmitted between theremote control10and thedevice34over thewireless system40. Thedevice34transmits/receives signals representing these two voices to/from the cellular system.In another example, thebutton14may be used to initiate a call answer function when a cellular call is received by thedevice34. In this case, thedevice34and/or thedevice32will sound a ring tone to alert the user to an incoming call. Because theremote control10uses standard Bluetooth headset protocols, a press of thebutton14will answer the call. When thedevice34is receiving a new inbound phone call, it knows that a signal received as a result of thebutton14being pressed is indicating that the call should be answered. When thedevice34is not involved in a cellular phone call, thedevice34knows that a signal received as a result of thebutton14being pressed is indicating that a voice UI command should be arriving shortly. In summary, when thedevice34receives a phone call, this call can be answered by pressing thebutton14. The call then proceeds as described above. A benefit of this arrangement is that the user does not need to walk over to thesound system33in order to make and receive phone calls. The user merely picks up theremote control10in order to place and receive phone calls.Turning toFIG. 4, when thedevice34is removed from thedock35such that thedevice34is not electrically connected to thesound output device32, theremote control10can be electrically temporarily connected to thedock35of thesound output device32at the same location where thedevice34was connected to the sound output device. In other words, the female thirtypin connector48on one end of the remote is inserted onto the male thirty pin connector in thedock35. As such, theremote control10and thedevice34can each connect to the same electrical connector on thesound output device32. When this connection is made, theremote control10resets itself to act as an audio signal receiver (a type of wireless device) which preferably can receive stereo audio (e.g. A2DP) signals.As such, when thedevice34transmits (stereo) audio signals over its Bluetooth wireless system, these signals are received by thewireless system40of theremote control10. These audio signals are electrically transmitted by the remote control to a speaker of thesound output device32for creating sound. Any Bluetooth source can connect and pass audio to theremote control10. A second portableaudio storage device52with a Bluetooth wireless system can alternatively transmit wireless audio signals to theremote control10. These signals are received by thewireless system40of theremote control10and used to produce sound as described earlier in this paragraph. Thedevice52is different from thedevice34. Any audio storage device that includes a Bluetooth wireless system can be used to transmit audio signals to thewireless system40of theremote control10. When theremote control10is connected to thedock35, therechargeable battery50in the remote control is electrically charged. Theremote control10uses thesame wireless system40for receiving audio signals (when connected to the dock35) as is used to transmit the human voice signals to the first portable audio storage device34(when thedevice34is connected to the dock35).With reference toFIG. 5, another example is shown in which adock54is physically separate from asound output device56. An insulatedelectrical wire58electrically connects thedock58and thesound output device56. The wire can pass electrical communication signals between thedock54and thedevice56. Power cords (not shown) provide electrical power to each of thedock54anddevice56. Other than thedock54being physically separate from thedevice56, this example functions essentially the same as was described above forFIGS. 1-4. Theremote control10ordevice34are connected to a male thirty pin connector in thedock54and operate as described above. The Wave® music system with connect kit for iPod® available from Bose Corporation is representative of this example.A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless, it will be understood that additional modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the inventive concepts described herein, and, accordingly, other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

This disclosure relates to a remote control for operating a sound output device.

There are a number of sound output devices on the market today to which a portable multimedia storage device (e.g. an iPhone®) can be mechanically and electrically connected. An example of such a sound output device is a SoundDock® II digital music system (DMS) sold by Bose Corp. When an iPhone® is inserted into a dock in the DMS, audio files (e.g. music) stored in the iPhone can be transmitted to and played out loud by the DMS. A user of the DMS would typically use an associated remote control to control playing of the audio files. As such, the user is often located at a distance from the DMS. When the iPhone® receives a phone call or the user wants to make a phone call, the user will need to first walk over to the DMS and then remove the iPhone from the DMS. At the conclusion of the call, the user would need to reinsert the iPhone® into the DMS to continue listening to audio file via the DMS. Having to take all of these steps to take or make a phone call is inconvenient to say the least. These issues can be present in other types of DMSs besides the SoundDock® II and with other types of portable multimedia storage device besides the iPhone®.

The iPhone® also has voice recognition capabilities. As such, a person can say a command for controlling audio play back such as “next track”, and the iPhone will react by starting to play a next track in a current sequence of audio files. As the person gets further away from the iPhone®, the ability of the voice recognition system to operate correctly decreases. Having to remain relatively close to the iPhone® in order to use the voice recognition system is problematic.

Remote controls usually have replaceable batteries. When the batteries run low on electrical power, they must be replaced. If the user of the remote control does not have the correct size spare batteries on hand, the remote control will not be able to be used to operate its associated device. It would be nice to have a remote control with a rechargeable battery which can conveniently be recharged.

The DMS mentioned above cannot wirelessly receive audio files for playback. Portable multimedia storage devices are entering the market with the ability to wirelessly transmit audio files. It would be nice if non-wireless DMSs could be conveniently retrofitted so that they could wirelessly receive audio files for playback.

In one aspect, a remote control for a sound system includes a first type of wireless system for transmitting commands for controlling operation of a sound output device. The remote control also includes a second type of wireless system for wirelessly transmitting signals that represent sounds created by a first human voice to a first portable audio storage device which can be electrically temporarily connected to the sound output device.

Embodiments may include one or more of the following features. The first type of wireless system operates in the infrared band. The second type of wireless system operates in the radio frequency band. The first portable audio storage device includes a voice user interface feature that reacts to the signals by controlling output of audio signals stored on the first portable audio storage device for reproduction by the sound output device. The remote control may further include a rechargeable battery that can be recharged when the remote control is connected to the sound output device. The remote control may further include a microphone for capturing the first human voice and a speaker for reproducing a second human voice which has been wirelessly received by the remote control from the first portable audio storage device (the first portable audio storage device having wirelessly received the second human voice from a remote location). When the first portable audio storage device is not electrically connected to the sound output device, the remote control may be electrically temporarily connected to the sound output device at a same location as where the first portable audio storage device connects to the sound output device. The second wireless system wirelessly may receive audio signals from the first portable audio storage device. The second wireless system may wirelessly receive audio signals from a second portable audio storage device that is different from the first portable audio storage device.

In another aspect, a sound system includes a sound output device including a speaker for producing sounds, and a remote control for transmitting wireless commands over a first wireless system for controlling operation of the sound output device. The sound system also includes a dock to which the remote control and a first portable audio storage device can be interchangeably electrically connected.

Embodiments may include one or more of the following features. The remote control includes a second wireless system capable of receiving wireless audio signals and providing said wireless audio signals to the sound system when the remote control is electrically connected to the sound system. The wireless audio signals are received by the remote control from the first portable audio storage device. The wireless audio signals are received by the remote control from a second portable audio storage device which is different from the first portable audio storage device. When the remote control is electrically connected to the dock, a rechargeable battery in the remote control is electrically charged. When the portable audio storage device is connected to the dock, the remote control can wirelessly transmit signals representing sounds created by a first human voice to the portable audio storage device. The portable multimedia storage device can wirelessly transmit audio signals representing sounds created by a second human voice to the remote control.

In yet another aspect, a method of operating a sound system includes the steps of providing a sound output device that includes a dock and temporarily electrically connecting one of a remote control device and a first portable audio storage device to the dock. Audio signals are wirelessly received at the remote control when the remote control is connected to the dock. Signals representing a first human voice from the remote control are wirelessly transmitted to the first portable audio device when the first portable audio device is connected to the dock.

Embodiments may include one or more of the following features. The remote control uses a same wireless system for receiving audio signals as is used to transmit the human voice signals to the first portable audio storage device. When the remote control is connected to the dock, the audio signals are used by the sound output device to create sound. When the first portable audio storage device is connected to the dock, the human voice signals received by the first portable audio storage device from the remote control are used by a voice user interface feature of the first portable audio storage device to control output of audio signals stored on the first portable audio storage device. Signals representing a second human voice are transmitted from the first portable audio storage device to the remote control when the first portable audio device is connected to the dock.

In still another aspect, a remote control for a sound output device includes a connector for electrically connecting the remote control to the sound output device. The remote control operates as a first type of wireless device when the remote control is connected to the sound output device, and operates as a second type of wireless device when the remote control is not connected to the sound output device.

Embodiments may include one or more of the following features. The first type of wireless device is a wireless receiver for receiving wireless audio signals. The second type of wireless device is a wireless communications headset which includes both a speaker and a microphone. A rechargeable battery in the remote control can be charged when the remote control is connected to the sound output device. A portable audio storage device which can provide audio signals to the sound output device for reproduction can be electrically connected to the sound output device by a connector of the sound output device when the remote control is not connected to the connector of the sound output device.

In still another aspect, an apparatus includes a housing and a first control surface, associated with the housing, for wirelessly controlling output of audio signals from a portable audio storage device connected to a sound output device. Also included are a microphone and speaker, associated with the housing, that are engaged when the apparatus is being used to participate in a wireless phone call.

An embodiment may include the following feature. A second control surface is included that is involved in one or more of initiating a wireless phone call and ending a wireless phone call.

FIG. 1is a perspective view of a remote control;

FIG. 2is a schematic block diagram of the functional aspects of the remote control ofFIG. 1;

FIG. 3is a front view of the remote control ofFIG. 1, a portable audio storage device, and a sound output device;

FIG. 4is a front view of the remote control ofFIG. 1, the portable audio storage device and a sound output device ofFIG. 3, and an additional portable audio storage device; and

FIG. 5is a schematic diagram of another example of a sound output device.

Referring toFIGS. 1 and 3, aremote control10includes ahousing12and a voice command/phone button (control surface)14. Operation ofbutton14will be explained in further detail below. Agroup15of eight buttons (control surfaces)16,18,20,22,24,26,28and30control operation of (i) a sound output device32(in this example a SoundDock® II digital music system by Bose Corp.) of asound system33, and (ii) a first portable audio storage device34(in this example an iPhone device, iPhone is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries). Thesound output device32includes one or more speakers (not shown) for producing sounds. A female thirty pin connector on the bottom of thedevice34electrically temporarily connectsdevice34to thedevice32via a male thirty pin connector (not shown) in adock35. In this example thedock35is physically part of thesound output device32. Thedevice34also includes a wireless telephone system such as a cellular device such that thedevice34can be used to wirelessly make and receive telephone calls.

With reference toFIG. 1, thebutton16turns off both thesound output device32andaudio storage device34when pressed if both devices are in an on state.Button18increases the volume of thesound output device32when pressed, andbutton20decreases the volume of thesound output device32when pressed. To return to the beginning of an audio track stored ondevice34,button22is pressed once. To quickly scan backward through a track stored ondevice34, press and holdbutton22. To skip to the beginning of a previous track stored ondevice34,press button22twice. To skip to a next track stored ondevice34,press button30once. To quickly scan through a track stored ondevice34, press and holdbutton30. To skip forward to a next playlist stored ondevice34,press button26. To skip back to a previous playlist stored ondevice34,press button28. To pause audio being played bydevice34,press button24once. To resume play,press button24again. Whendevices32and34are off, pressing any ofbuttons18,20,22,26,28or30will wake updevices32and34but will not cause audio to start playing. Whendevices32and34are off, pressingbutton24will wake updevices32and34and will cause audio to start playing. This paragraph describes one way in which the group ofbuttons15can be mapped to control functions on thedevices32and34. Other arrangements of buttons or control surfaces (e.g. touch sensitive surfaces) can be used to control the functions of thedevices32and34.

Referring toFIGS. 2-3, pressing any of the buttons ingroup15signals a microprocessor (up)36to cause a first type ofwireless system38of the remote control to transmit a wireless command for controlling operation ofdevices32and/or34. In this example,system38includes an infra red (IR) transmitter which operates in the IR band and sends commands to an IR receiver in thesound output device32. A different type of wireless system besides IR can be used forsystem38. If the command is for thedevice32, thendevice32executes the command. If the command is for thedevice34, thendevice32transmits the command through an electrical connection to thedevice34which executes the command. Alternatively, commands fordevice34can be received directly bydevice34. If the command is for bothdevices32and34, then bothdevices32and34execute the command. If two-way communication is desired between thedevice32and theremote control10, the IR transmitter is replaced with an IR transceiver.

Turning toFIG. 2,remote control10includes a second type ofwireless system40, which in this example includes a Bluetooth two-way radio frequency (RF) communication system (preferably class 1 or 2). Bluetooth specification documents can be obtained by writing to Bluetooth SIG, Inc., 5209 Lake Washington Blvd. NE, Suite 350, Kirkland, Wash. 98033, or calling (425) 691-3535, or downloading the documents from this web address: http://www.bluetooth.com/English/Technology/Building/Pages/Specifcation.aspx.System40operates in the RF band and is used for wirelessly transmitting signals that represent sounds from a first human voice from theremote control10to the device34(FIG. 3). Theremote control10also includes a speaker42(seeFIG. 2) which creates sound waves that pass through openings44(FIG. 1) in thehousing12. Thespeaker42is used to reproduce the sound of a second human voice from a corresponding signal representing this voice which was wirelessly received by the remote control from the device34(thedevice34having wirelessly received signals representing the second human voice over a cellular phone system from a remote location). Further included in theremote control10is amicrophone46and a female thirtypin connector48. Themicrophone46receives sound waves from the environment external to thehousing12through the30pin connector48. Alternatively, openings (not shown) in thehousing12similar to theopenings44may be provided in the vicinity of themicrophone46to allow sound waves outside thehousing12to reach themicrophone46. The microphone is used to electronically capture the sounds created by a human voice and pass the resulting signals tosystem40for wireless transmission to thedevice34. Theremote control10also includes a battery orbatteries50which are preferably rechargeable.

Referring toFIG. 3, when theremote control10anddevice34are first used together, the Bluetooth systems in the remote control anddevice34must be paired with each other. This generally happens automatically when theremote control10anddevice34both have their Bluetooth radios turned on and are located in the same room (for class 2 Bluetooth) or within the same house (for class 1 Bluetooth). If automatic pairing does not happen, the user will typically enter a four digit code (e.g. 0000 or 1234) intodevice34. This code will be provided, for example, in the owner's guide for theremote control10. After the initial pairing of theremote control10and thedevice34, these two components should automatically connect with each other whenever they are brought into the vicinity of each other (e.g. same room or same house as described above). Theremote control10is set as a Bluetooth headset which is a type of wireless device.

With reference toFIGS. 1-3, when the portableaudio storage device34is connected to thesound output device32as described above, the group ofbuttons15can be used to control playback of audio signals stored ondevice34by device32(see above). In addition, thebutton14can be used to activate a voice user interface (UI) system in thedevice34. Thebutton14may be a multifunction button, where the operation controlled by a press of thebutton14depends on the state of thedevice34. For example, when thedevice34is not currently processing a cellular call, pressing thebutton14may initiate a voice UI on thedevice34. Subsequent spoken commands into theremote control10are then used to control thedevice34. Any voice UI function available on thedevice34may be controlled by voice commands issued by theremote control10provided thedevice34exposes its voice API. Alternatively, thesound output device32could reproduce voice signals received from thedevice34which originated at theremote control10. As such the voice UI functions of thedevice34are accessed as if the user were directly speaking into thedevice34.

When thebutton14is pressed, a wireless signal is sent to thedevice34indicating that a voice-UI command should be received soon. The user then states a command at theremote control10such as “fast forward” or “next track”. This vocal command is picked up by themicrophone46in theremote control10. Signals from themicrophone46that represent the sounds of the human voice of the user are wirelessly transmitted by thewireless system40to thedevice34. Thedevice34recognizes and executes the command. As such, signals (representing a human voice) received by thedevice34from theremote control10are used by the voice UI feature of thedevice34to control output of audio signals stored on thedevice34.

A user can also initiate a cellular phone call by pressingbutton14and then stating, for example, “call Kim” at theremote control10. As already described, this command is transmitted to thedevice34which executes the command by dialing the phone number for Kim which had been previously stored in thedevice34. If the phone call is answered, the user speaks into themicrophone46to talk to Kim and listens to sounds from thespeaker42to hear Kim's voice. As such, signals representing two human voices are transmitted between theremote control10and thedevice34over thewireless system40. Thedevice34transmits/receives signals representing these two voices to/from the cellular system.

In another example, thebutton14may be used to initiate a call answer function when a cellular call is received by thedevice34. In this case, thedevice34and/or thedevice32will sound a ring tone to alert the user to an incoming call. Because theremote control10uses standard Bluetooth headset protocols, a press of thebutton14will answer the call. When thedevice34is receiving a new inbound phone call, it knows that a signal received as a result of thebutton14being pressed is indicating that the call should be answered. When thedevice34is not involved in a cellular phone call, thedevice34knows that a signal received as a result of thebutton14being pressed is indicating that a voice UI command should be arriving shortly. In summary, when thedevice34receives a phone call, this call can be answered by pressing thebutton14. The call then proceeds as described above. A benefit of this arrangement is that the user does not need to walk over to thesound system33in order to make and receive phone calls. The user merely picks up theremote control10in order to place and receive phone calls.

Turning toFIG. 4, when thedevice34is removed from thedock35such that thedevice34is not electrically connected to thesound output device32, theremote control10can be electrically temporarily connected to thedock35of thesound output device32at the same location where thedevice34was connected to the sound output device. In other words, the female thirtypin connector48on one end of the remote is inserted onto the male thirty pin connector in thedock35. As such, theremote control10and thedevice34can each connect to the same electrical connector on thesound output device32. When this connection is made, theremote control10resets itself to act as an audio signal receiver (a type of wireless device) which preferably can receive stereo audio (e.g. A2DP) signals.

As such, when thedevice34transmits (stereo) audio signals over its Bluetooth wireless system, these signals are received by thewireless system40of theremote control10. These audio signals are electrically transmitted by the remote control to a speaker of thesound output device32for creating sound. Any Bluetooth source can connect and pass audio to theremote control10. A second portableaudio storage device52with a Bluetooth wireless system can alternatively transmit wireless audio signals to theremote control10. These signals are received by thewireless system40of theremote control10and used to produce sound as described earlier in this paragraph. Thedevice52is different from thedevice34. Any audio storage device that includes a Bluetooth wireless system can be used to transmit audio signals to thewireless system40of theremote control10. When theremote control10is connected to thedock35, therechargeable battery50in the remote control is electrically charged. Theremote control10uses thesame wireless system40for receiving audio signals (when connected to the dock35) as is used to transmit the human voice signals to the first portable audio storage device34(when thedevice34is connected to the dock35).

With reference toFIG. 5, another example is shown in which adock54is physically separate from asound output device56. An insulatedelectrical wire58electrically connects thedock58and thesound output device56. The wire can pass electrical communication signals between thedock54and thedevice56. Power cords (not shown) provide electrical power to each of thedock54anddevice56. Other than thedock54being physically separate from thedevice56, this example functions essentially the same as was described above forFIGS. 1-4. Theremote control10ordevice34are connected to a male thirty pin connector in thedock54and operate as described above. The Wave® music system with connect kit for iPod® available from Bose Corporation is representative of this example.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless, it will be understood that additional modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the inventive concepts described herein, and, accordingly, other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.