DESCRIPTION:
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONSThis application is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 16/393,057, filed Apr. 24, 2019, which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 15/104,585, filed Jun. 15, 2016, now U.S. Pat. No. 10,384,649, issued Aug. 20, 2019, which in turn is a National Stage of International Application No. PCT/JP2015/082303, filed Nov. 17, 2015, which designated the United States, the entireties of which are incorporated herein by reference.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONThe present invention relates to a heating plate, a conductive pattern sheet for the heating plate, a vehicle having the heating plate, and a method of manufacturing the heating plate.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONAs a defroster apparatus used for a pane, such as a front window and a rear window of a vehicle, a defroster apparatus locating a heating wire formed of a tungsten wire or the like all over the pane is known. In the conventional technique, by powering the heating wire provided all over the pane to raise a temperature of the pane by means of resistance heat, the pane is defogged or defrosted to ensure a field of view of a passenger.In a defroster apparatus disclosed in JP2013-173402A, a tungsten wire is used as the heating wire. In this case, the heating wire has an increased cross-sectional area in order to prevent that electric resistance of the heating wire becomes too high because of a higher electric resistivity of tungsten. Thus, the heating wire using the tungsten wire is easily visible to an observer. The fact that the heating wire is visible to an observer such as a driver deteriorates a visibility of the observer through the pane.There is recently known another defroster apparatus manufactured by creating a conductive pattern by photolithographic technique in place of a heating wire formed of a tungsten wire or the like. By powering the conductive pattern, a temperature of a pane is raised by means of resistance heat (JP2011-216378A and JP2012-151116A). This method is advantageous in that even a conductive pattern of a complicated shape can be easily formed. In JP2011-216378A and 3P2012-151116A, a conductive pattern having an irregular shape obtained from a Voronoi diagram is formed, and the conductive pattern is used as a heating wire for raising a temperature of a pane.FIG. 23shows a partially enlargedconductive pattern540of a conventional defroster apparatus disclosed in JP2011-216378A and JP2012-151116A. In the conventional defroster apparatus, theconductive pattern540includes a plurality ofconnection elements544that extend between twobranch points542to defineopening areas543. Eachconnection element544is formed of one straight line. The inventors of the present invention have conducted extensive studies on the defroster apparatus having such aconnection element544and found that theconductive pattern540including theconnection elements544may be visible to an observer (e.g., a passenger such as a driver), because of the shape of eachconnection element544formed of one straight line. When light such as outside light incident on the defroster apparatus enters a side surface formed of a flat surface of theconnection element544, the light incident on each position of the side surface is reflected on the side surface in substantially a certain direction. The reflected light is visible to an observer so that theconductive pattern540including theconnection elements544is visible to the observer. The fact that theconductive pattern540including theconnection elements544is visible to the observer such as a driver deteriorates a visibility of the observer through the pane.The present invention has been made in view of the above circumstances. The first object of the present invention is to improve an invisibility of the conductive pattern of the defroster apparatus.Various materials have been conventionally used for a heating wire of the defroster apparatus. For example, JP9-207718A discloses that a heating wire is made of tungsten. The heating wires disclosed in JP9-207718A are arranged in a so-called line and space pattern in which the plurality of heating wires are arranged in one direction.The heating wire (thin conductive wire) in the defroster apparatus is desired to be as thin as possible, in order to improve a see-through property of a pane. However, the heating wire made of tungsten as in JP9-207718A has a relatively higher volume resistivity. Thus, in consideration of heat generation by the resistance heat of the electric wire upon being powered, it is difficult to make extremely thinner the heating wire. Thus, when the heating wire as disclosed in JP9-207718A is used in the defroster apparatus, there is a difficulty in exhibiting an excellent see-through property, while realizing a suitable heat generation function.When the heating wires made of tungsten as disclosed in JP9-207718A are used in the defroster apparatus, the heating wires are sometimes heated/pressurized while being sandwiched between a pair of glass plates. In this case, before the heating/pressurizing step, the heating wires are generally manufactured as thin wires in a separate step. The heating wires formed in the separate step are placed and positioned in a desired pattern between a pair of glass plates, and the pair of glass plates in this condition are heated/pressurized. However, this positioning operation requires time and effort in order to precisely position the electric wires. In addition, when the pair of glass plates are heated/pressurized, there is a possibility that the electric wires are shifted from the determined positions.The present invention has been made in view of the above circumstances. The second object of the present invention is to provide a heating plate and a method of manufacturing the same, which is capable of achieving an excellent see-through property because thin conductive wires disposed between glass plates are sufficiently thin, and of achieving an excellent heat generation upon being powered although the line widths of the thin conductive wires are thin, while a desired pattern of the thin conductive wires can be easily given to the heating plate with high precision.In addition, the third object of the present invention is to provide a heating plate, a pattern sheet and a method of manufacturing the same, which is capable of achieving an excellent see-through property because the thin conductive wires disposed between glass plates are sufficiently thin, and of achieving an excellent heat generation upon being powered although the line widths of the thin conductive wires are thin.JP2010-3667A discloses that heating wires are formed by exposing, developing and fixing a silver-salt photosensitive layer on a substrate. In addition, JP2010-3667A discloses that heating wires are formed by laminating a metal foil on a substrate and etching the metal foil, and that heating wires are formed by printing a paste containing metal particles on a substrate. Further, there is disclosed that heating wire are formed by printing heating wires on a substrate by means of a screen printing plate.In such a defroster apparatus, a pair of glass plates, with a joint layer and heating wires being sandwiched therebetween, are heated and pressurized so as to manufacture a heating plate, and a defroster apparatus is formed of the heating plate. When such a heating plate is manufactured with the use of the heating wires disclosed in JP2010-3667A, the heating wires, which are integral with a sheet-like substrate, are disposed between a pair of glass plates, and then heated and pressurized. In more detail, a glass plate, a joint layer, a substrate integral with the heating wires, a joint layer and a glass plate are superposed in this order, and then heated and pressurized. In the thus manufactured heating plate, the one joint layer of the two joint layers is directly in contact with the glass plate and the substrate to join the glass plate and the substrate, and the other joint layer is directly in contact with the heating wire and the glass plate to join the heating wire and the glass plate.Each heating wire disclosed in JP2010-3667A is formed to project along a normal direction of a sheet plane of a sheet-like substrate, and a sidewall thereof extends along the normal direction of the sheet pale of the substrate. The sidewall of such a heating wire may have an overhang shape, for some reason or other in the course of manufacture. The overhang shape means a shape of a heating wire that sidewall of the heating wire inclinedly extends to the outside in a direction along the sheet plane of the substrate, as a certain point in the sidewall moves away from the substrate along the normal direction of the sheet plane of the substrate. Such an overhang shape particularly tends to be formed when a heating wire is formed by etching or by printing a paste containing metal particles.However, in the case where the sidewall of a heating wire has a shape that extends along the normal direction of the sheet plane of the substrate or the overhang shape, when the heating wire and the joint layer are brought into contact with each other in the heating and pressurizing step during the manufacture of a heating plate, it is difficult for the joint layer to get into a root side of the heating wire, so that bubbles are likely to remain around the sidewall of the heating wire. These bubbles may impair an appearance quality of the heating plate as well as resulting in glaring (glittering). Thus, in the manufacture of the heating plate, countermeasure against remaining of the bubbles is desired.The present invention has been made in view of the above circumstances. The fourth object of the present invention is to restrain remaining of bubbles in a heating plate.SUMMARY OF THE INVENTIONA first object of the present invention is to improve invisibility of a conductive pattern in a defroster apparatus. The first object is achieved by a first embodiment of the present invention.A heating plate according to the first embodiment of the present invention includes:a pair of glass plates;a conductive pattern disposed between the pair of glass plates and defining a plurality of opening areas; anda joint layer disposed between the conductive pattern and at least one of the pair of glass plates;wherein:the conductive pattern includes a plurality of connection elements that extend between two branch points to define the opening areas; anda rate of the connection elements, which are straight line segments connecting the two branch points, relative to the plurality of connection elements, is less than 20%.In the heating plate according to the first embodiment of the present invention, the conductive pattern may be formed by patterning a conductive layer by etching.In the heating plate according to the first embodiment of the present invention, an average distance between centers of gravity of the two adjacent opening areas may be not less than 80 μm. The average distance between centers of gravity of the two adjacent opening areas may be not less than 70 μm.In the heating plate according to the first embodiment of the present invention, a thickness of the conductive pattern may be not less than 5 μm. A thickness of the conductive pattern may be not less than 2 μm.In the heating plate according to the first embodiment of the present invention, an average of ratio (L1/L2) of a length L1of each opening area along a first direction, relative to a length L2of the opening area along a second direction perpendicular to the first direction, may be not less than 1.3 and not more than 1.8.A conductive pattern sheet according to the first embodiment of the present invention includes:a substrate; anda conductive pattern disposed on the substrate and defining a plurality of opening areas;wherein:the conductive pattern includes a plurality of connection elements that extend between two branch points to define the opening areas; anda rate of the connection elements, which are straight line segments connecting the two branch points, relative to the plurality of connection elements, is less than 20%.A vehicle according to the first embodiment of the present invention includes the aforementioned heating plate.According to the first embodiment of the present invention, it is possible to improve invisibility of a conductive pattern in a defroster apparatus.The first object of the present invention is achieved by a second embodiment of the present invention.A heating plate according to the second embodiment of the present invention includes:a pair of glass plates;a conductive pattern disposed between the pair of glass plates and including a thin conductive wire; anda joint layer disposed between the conductive pattern and at least one of the pair of glass plates;wherein:the thin conductive wire of the conductive pattern has a first surface facing one of the pair of glass plates, and a second surface facing the other of the pair of glass plate; and when a width of the first surface of the thin conductive wire is represented as W2a(μm), a width of the second surface of the thin conductive wire is represented as W2b(μm), and a cross-sectional area of the thin conductive wire is represented as S2a(μm2), the following relationships represented (a) and (b) are satisfied.0<|W2a−W2b|≤10  (a)S2a≥10  (b)In the heating plate according to the second embodiment of the present invention, the conductive pattern may be formed by patterning a conductive layer by etching.In the heating plate according to the second embodiment of the present invention, the conductive pattern may include a pattern defining a plurality of opening areas; and the conductive pattern may include a plurality of connection elements that extend between two branch points to define the opening areas.In the heating plate according to the second embodiment of the present invention, an average of the number of the connection elements extending from one branch point may be more than 3.0 and less than 4.0.In the heating plate according to the second embodiment of the present invention, the conductive pattern may include opening areas surrounded by four, five, six and seven connection elements, respectively; and among the opening areas included in the conductive pattern, the number of opening areas surrounded by six connection elements may be predominant.In the heating plate according to the second embodiment of the present invention, at least some of the plurality of connection elements may have a curved shape or a polygonal line shape, when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane of the heating plate.A conductive pattern sheet according to the second embodiment of the present invention includes:a substrate; anda conductive pattern disposed on the substrate and including a thin conductive wire;wherein:the thin conductive wire of the conductive pattern has a proximal surface forming a surface on the side of the substrate, and a distal surface facing the proximal surface;when a width of the distal surface of the thin conductive wire is represented as W2c(μm), a width W2dof the proximal surface of the thin conductive wire is represented as W2d(μm), and a cross-sectional area of the thin conductive wire is represented as S2b(μm2), the following relationships represented (c) and (d) are satisfied.0<|W2c−W2d|≤10  (c)S2b≥10  (d)A vehicle according to the second embodiment of the present invention includes the aforementioned heating plate.According to the second embodiment of the present invention, invisibility of a conductive pattern in a defroster apparatus can be improved.A second object of the present invention is to provide a heating plate capable of obtaining an excellent see-though property because a thin conductive wire disposed between glass plates is sufficiently thin, capable of obtaining suitable heat generation upon being powered although a line width of the thin conductive wire is thin, and to which thin conductive wires in a desired pattern can be easily given precisely, and a manufacturing method thereof. The second object is achieved by a third embodiment of the present invention.A first heating plate according to the third embodiment of the present invention includes:a pair of glass plates; anda conductive pattern disposed between the pair of glass plates;wherein:the conductive pattern includes a plurality of thin conductive wires that are formed of a patterned copper film and are arranged in one direction, each thin conductive wire extending in the other direction not in parallel with the one direction apart from another thin conductive wire adjacent in the one direction;a line width of the thin conductive wire is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm; anda pitch between the adjacent thin conductive wires is not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm.A second heating plate according to the third embodiment of the present invention includes:a pair of glass plates; anda conductive pattern disposed between the pair of glass plates;wherein:the conductive pattern includes a plurality of thin conductive wires that are formed of a patterned copper film and are arranged in a line and space pattern;a line width of the thin conductive wire is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm; anda pitch between the adjacent thin conductive wires is not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm.In the first or second heating plate according to the third embodiment of the present invention, each thin conductive wire may extend in a pattern of a polygonal line shape or in a pattern of a corrugated shape.In the first or second heating plate according to the third embodiment of the present invention, the copper film may be an electrolytic copper foil. In this case, a thickness of the electrolytic copper foil may be not more than 7 μm.A manufacturing method of the first heating plate according to the third embodiment of the present invention is a manufacturing method of a heating plate including a pair of glass plates and a conductive pattern disposed between the pair of glass plates, the manufacturing method including:laminating a copper film on a substrate; andforming the conductive pattern including a plurality of thin conductive wires formed by patterning the copper film;wherein:the plurality of thin conductive wires are arranged in one direction;each thin conductive wire extends in the other direction not in parallel with the one direction apart from another thin conductive wire adjacent in the one direction; anda line width of the thin conductive wire is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm, and a pitch between the adjacent thin conductive wires is not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm.A manufacturing method of the second heating plate according to the third embodiment of the present invention is:a manufacturing method of a heating plate including a pair of glass plates and a conductive pattern disposed between the pair of glass plates, the manufacturing method including:laminating a copper film on the substrate; andforming the conductive pattern including a plurality of thin conductive wires formed by patterning the copper film;wherein:the plurality of thin conductive wires are arranged in a line and space pattern; anda line width of the thin conductive wire is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm, and a pitch between the adjacent thin conductive wires is not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm.In the first or second heating plate according to the third embodiment of the present invention, the copper film may be an electrolytic copper foil. In this case, a thickness of the electrolytic copper foil may be not more than 7 μm.According to the third embodiment, it is possible to provide a heating plate capable of obtaining an excellent see-though property because a thin conductive wire disposed between glass plates is sufficiently thin, capable of obtaining suitable heat generation upon being powered although a line width of the thin conductive wire is thin, and to which thin conductive wires in a desired pattern can be easily given precisely, and a manufacturing method thereof.A third object of the present invention is to provide a heating plate and a pattern sheet capable of obtaining an excellent see-though property because a thin conductive wire disposed between glass plates is sufficiently thin, and capable of obtaining suitable heat generation upon being powered although a line width of the thin conductive wire is thin, and a manufacturing method thereof. The third object is achieved by a fourth embodiment of the present invention.A heating plate according to the fourth embodiment of the present invention includes:a pair of glass plates; anda conductive pattern disposed between the pair of glass plates;wherein:the conductive pattern includes thin conductive wires formed of a patterned copper film and arranged in a mesh pattern; anda line width of the thin conductive wire is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm.In the heating plate according to the fourth embodiment of the present invention, the thin conductive wires may be arranged in a honeycomb pattern.In this case, a pitch of adjacent hexagonal openings in the honeycomb pattern may be not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 7.0 mm.In the heating plate according to the fourth embodiment of the present invention, the thin conductive wires may be arranged in a grid pattern.In this case, a pitch of adjacent rectangular openings in the grid pattern may be not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 7.0 mm.A conductive pattern sheet according to the fourth embodiment of the present invention is a conductive pattern sheet used in a heating plate that generates heat upon application of voltage thereto, the conductive pattern sheet including:a substrate; anda conductive pattern disposed on the substrate;wherein:the conductive pattern includes thin conductive wires formed of a patterned copper film and arranged in a mesh pattern; anda line width of the thin conductive wire is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm.A manufacturing method of a heating plate according to the fourth embodiment of the present invention is a manufacturing method of a heating plate including a pair of glass plates and a conductive pattern disposed between the pair of glass plates, the manufacturing method including:laminating a copper film on a substrate; andforming the conductive pattern including thin conductive wires formed by patterning the copper film;wherein:the thin conductive wires are arranged in a mesh pattern; anda line width of the thin conductive wire is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm.According to the fourth embodiment, it is possible to provide a heating plate and a pattern sheet capable of obtaining an excellent see-though property because a thin conductive wire disposed between glass plates is sufficiently thin, and capable of obtaining suitable heat generation upon being powered although a line width of the thin conductive wire is thin, and a manufacturing method thereof.A fourth object of the present invention is to restrain bubbles from remaining in a heating plate. The fourth object is achieved by a fifth embodiment of the present invention.A heating plate according to the fifth embodiment of the present invention includes: a heating plate including a pair of glass plates and a conductive pattern disposed between the pair of glass plates, the conductive pattern including thin conductive wires arranged in a pattern, the heating plate comprising:a joint layer disposed between at least one of the pair of glass plates and the conductive pattern, the joint layer being directly in contact with the glass plate and the thin conductive wires so as to join the conductive pattern to the glass plate;wherein the thin conductive wire is formed such that a line width thereof narrows as a certain point in the thin conductive wire comes close to the glass plates located on the side of the joint layer in contact with the thin conductive wires.In the heating plate according to the fifth embodiment of the present invention, the thin conductive wires may be formed from a metal film that is patterned by etching.In the heating plate according to the fifth embodiment of the present invention, the thin conductive wire may be formed to have a trapezoidal sectional shape in a direction perpendicular to an extension direction of the thin conductive wire.In the heating plate according to the fifth embodiment of the present invention, the trapezoidal sectional shape in the thin conductive wire may have an angle which is defined by a line segment extending from an end of a lower base to an end of an upper base, with respect to a direction extending along the lower base, the angle being not less than 40 degrees and not more than 85 degrees.In the heating plate according to the fifth embodiment of the present invention, the thin conductive wire may have a dark color layer at a position facing a side opposed to the glass plate located on the side of the joint layer in contact with the thin conductive wire. In this case, the dark color layer may be made of chrome oxide.A conductive pattern sheet according to the fifth embodiment of the present is: a conductive pattern sheet having a conductive pattern to be disposed between a pair of glass plates, comprising:a sheet-like substrate including a pair of opposed surfaces; wherein:the conductive pattern is provided at least any of the pair of opposed surfaces of the substrate;the conductive pattern includes thin conductive wires arranged in a pattern; andthe thin conductive wire is formed such that a line width thereof narrows as a certain point in the thin conductive wire moves away outward from the substrate along a normal direction to a sheet plane of the substrate.According to the fifth embodiment of the present invention, it is possible to restrain bubbles from remaining in a heating plate.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSFIG. 1is a perspective view for explaining a first embodiment according to the present invention, schematically showing a vehicle including a heating plate. In particular,FIG. 1schematically shows, as an example of the vehicle, an automobile including the heating plate.FIG. 2is a view of the heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 3is a cross-sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 2.FIG. 4is a plan view showing an example of a shape of a reference pattern which is referred to for determining a conductive pattern of the heating plate.FIG. 5is an enlarged view showing a part of the conductive pattern together with the reference pattern shown inFIG. 4.FIG. 6is a view for explaining an operation of the conductive pattern in the first embodiment.FIG. 7is a view for explaining an example of a manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 8is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 9is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 10is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 11is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 12is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 13is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 14is a view for explaining a modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 15is a view for explaining the modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 16is a view for explaining the modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 17is a view for explaining the modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 18is a view for explaining the modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 19is a view for explaining another modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 20is a view for explaining the other modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 21is a plan view showing a modification example of the reference pattern.FIG. 22is an enlarged view showing a part of the conductive pattern together with the reference pattern shown inFIG. 21.FIG. 23is a view for explaining a conventional technique.FIG. 24is a view for explaining a second embodiment according to the present invention, showing the heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 25is a cross-sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 2.FIG. 26is a plan view showing an example of a pattern shape of the conductive pattern of the heating plate.FIG. 27is a plan view showing another example of the pattern shape of the conductive pattern of the heating plate.FIG. 28is an enlarged view showing a part of the conductive pattern ofFIG. 27.FIG. 29is a sectional view showing a sectional shape of a thin conductive wire of the conductive pattern.FIG. 30is a view for explaining an example of a manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 31is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 32is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 33is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 34is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 35is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 36is a view for explaining a modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 37is a view for explaining the modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 38is a view for explaining the modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 39is a view for explaining the modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 40is a view for explaining the modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 41is a view for explaining another modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 42is a view for explaining another modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 43is a view for explaining a third embodiment according to the present invention, showing the heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 44is a cross-sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 43.FIG. 45is a view showing conditions of respective members constituting the heating plate ofFIG. 44before the respective members are laminated.FIG. 46is a plan view showing an example of the conductive pattern.FIG. 47is a sectional view corresponding to an A-A line ofFIG. 46, showing an example of a sectional shape of the thin conductive wire.FIG. 48is a sectional view corresponding to the A-A line ofFIG. 46, showing another example of a sectional shape of the thin conductive wire.FIG. 49is a view for explaining an example of a manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 50is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 51is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 52is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 53is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 54is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 55is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 56is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 57is a view for explaining a fourth embodiment according to the present invention, showing the heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 58is a cross-sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 57.FIG. 59is a view showing conditions of respective members constituting the heating plate ofFIG. 58before the respective members are laminated.FIG. 60is a plan view showing an example of the conductive pattern.FIG. 61is a sectional view corresponding to an A-A line ofFIG. 60, showing an example of a sectional shape of the thin conductive wire.FIG. 62is a sectional view corresponding to the A-A line ofFIG. 60, showing another example of a sectional shape of the thin conductive wire.FIG. 63is a view for explaining an example of a manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 64is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 65is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 66is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 67is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 68is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 69is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 70is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 71is a view for explaining a fifth embodiment according to the present invention, showing the heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 72is a cross-sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 71.FIG. 73is a view showing conditions of respective members constituting the heating plate ofFIG. 72before the respective members are laminated.FIG. 74is a plan view showing an example of the conductive pattern.FIG. 75is a sectional view corresponding to an A-A line ofFIG. 74, showing a sectional shape of the thin conductive wire.FIG. 76Ais an enlarged view of the sectional shape of the thin conductive wire shown inFIG. 75.FIG. 76Bis an enlarged view of the sectional shape of the thin conductive wire.FIG. 77is a view for explaining an example of a manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 78is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 79is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 80is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 81is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 82is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 83is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 84is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 85is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 86is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.FIG. 87is a view for explaining a modification example of the heating plate in the fifth embodiment according to the present invention.FIG. 88is a view for explaining another modification example of the heating plate in the fifth embodiment according to the present invention.DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTIONA plurality of embodiments of the present invention will be described herebelow with reference to the drawings. In the drawings attached to the specification, a scale size, an aspect ratio and so on are changed and exaggerated from the actual ones, for the convenience of easiness in illustration and understanding. In addition, structures and features of the embodiments described below can be suitably combined.In this specification, the terms “plate”, “sheet” and “film” are not differentiated from one another, based only on the difference of terms. For example, a “conductive pattern sheet” is a concept including a member that can be referred to as plate and film, and is not differentiated from a member referred to as “conductive pattern plate (substrate)” or “conductive pattern film” based only on the difference of terms.In addition, the term “sheet plane (plate plane, film plane)” means a plane corresponding to a planar direction of a sheet-like (plate-like, film-like) member as a target that is seen as a whole in general.In this specification, the term “joint” includes not only a “complete joint” where joint is perfectly completed but also a so-called “provisional joint” for provisional joint before the “complete joint”.Further, in this specification, terms specifying shapes, geometric conditions and their degrees, e.g., “parallel”, “perpendicular”, “same”, etc., are not limited to their strict definitions, but construed to include a range with a view to obtaining the similar function.First EmbodimentFIGS. 1 to 22are views for explaining a first embodiment according to the present invention.FIG. 1is a view schematically showing an automobile including a heating plate.FIG. 2is a view of the heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 3is a cross sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 2. The heating plate in this embodiment is sometimes referred to as “laminated glass”.As shown inFIG. 1, anautomobile1as an example of a vehicle includes panes such as a front window, a rear window and side windows. Herein, a front window5is formed of aheating plate10by way of example. In addition, theautomobile1includes apower source7such as a battery.Heating plates110,210,310and410according to the other embodiments described below can be applied to the automobile ofFIG. 1.FIG. 2shows theheating plate10viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof. In addition,FIG. 3shows a cross-sectional view corresponding to a line III-III of theheating plate10ofFIG. 2. In the example shown inFIG. 3, theheating plate10includes a pair ofglass plates11,12, a conductive pattern sheet (pattern sheet)20disposed between the pair ofglass plates11,12, a joint layer13(connecting layer13) that joins (connects) theglass plate11and theconductive pattern sheet20, and ajoint layer14that joins theglass plate12and theconductive pattern sheet20. In the example shown inFIGS. 1 and 2, theheating plate10is curved. However,FIG. 3andFIGS. 13 to 20planarly show theheating plate10and theglass plates11,12, for simplifying the illustration and facilitating the understanding.Theconductive pattern sheet20includes a sheet-like substrate30, aconductive pattern40formed on thesubstrate30, awiring part15for powering theconductive pattern40, and aconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern40and thewiring part15.In the example shown inFIGS. 2 and 3, theconductive pattern40is powered by thepower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so that theconductive pattern40generates heat by means of resistance heat. The heat generated by theconductive pattern40is transmitted to theglass plates11,12through thejoint layers13,14, so that theglass plates11,12are warmed up. Thus, dew drops on theglass plates11,12can be removed so that theglass plates11,12can be defogged. When there is snow or ice on theglass plates11,12, the snow or ice can be unfrozen. Thus, an excellent field of view of a passenger can be ensured.Particularly when used as a front window of an automobile, theglass plate11,12preferably has a high visible light transmittance, in order not to hinder a field of view of a passenger. A material of such aglass plate11,12may be soda lime glass, blue plate glass (float glass) and so on, for example. Theglass plate11,12preferably has a transmittance of 90% or more in a visible light area. The visible light transmittance of theglass plate11,12is specified as follows. Transmittance of light with measurement wavelength range of from 380 nm to 780 nm is measured by using a spectrophotometer (manufactured by Shimadzu Corporation, “UV-3100PC”, compliant with JIS K 0115). The visible light transmittance is an average value of the transmittances at the respective wavelengths. The visible light transmittance may be lowered by partially or totally coloring theglass plate11,12, for example. In this case, direct sunlight can be shielded and an inside of the automobile is less visible from outside.In addition, theglass plate11,12preferably has a thickness of not less than 1 mm and not more than 5 mm. With such a thickness, theglass plate11,12excellent in strength and optical properties can be obtained.Theglass plates11,12and theconductive pattern sheet20are joined to each other through thejoint layers13,14, respectively. As such ajoint layer13,14, a layer made of a material having various adhesion properties or gluing (pressure sensitive adhesive) properties can be employed. In addition, thejoint layer13,14preferably has a high visible light transmittance. A typical joint layer may be a layer made of polyvinyl butyral (PVB), for example. Thejoint layer13,14preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.15 mm and not more than 0.7 mm.Not limited to the illustrated example, theheating plate10may be provided with another function layer for exerting a specific function. In addition, one function layer may exert two or more functions. Alternatively, for example, a function may be given to at least one of theglass plate11,12of theheating plate10, thejoint layer13,14thereof, and thesubstrate30of theconductive pattern sheet20thereof, which is described later. The function that can be given toheating plate10may be an antireflection (AR) function, a hard coat (HC) function having an abrasion resistance, an infrared ray shield (reflection) function, an ultraviolet ray shield (reflection) function, a polarizing function, an antifouling function and so on, for example.Next, theconductive pattern sheet20is described. Theconductive pattern sheet20includes the sheet-like substrate30, theconductive pattern40disposed on thesubstrate30, thewiring part15for powering theconductive pattern40, and theconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern40and thewiring part15. Theconductive pattern40is formed by arranging thin conductive wires made of metal or the like in a predetermined pattern. Theconductive pattern sheet20may have a planar dimension substantially the same as that of theglass plate11,12so as to be placed all over theheating plate10. Alternatively, theconductive pattern sheet20may be placed over only a part of theheating plate10, such as a part in front of a driver's seat.The sheet-like substrate30functions as a substrate that supports theconductive pattern40. Thesubstrate30is an electrically insulating substrate that transmits light of a wavelength (380 nm to 780 nm) of a visible light wavelength band, which is generally recognized as transparent.Although any resin transmitting visible light can be used as a resin to be contained in thesubstrate30, a thermoplastic resin may be preferably used. The thermoplastic resin may be an acryl resin made of, e.g., polymethyl methacrylate, a polyester resin made of, e.g., polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene terephthalate or amorphous polyethylene terephthalate (A-PET), a polyethylene resin, a polyolefin resin made of, e.g., polypropylene, a cellulose-based resin made of, e.g., triacetyl cellulose (cellulose triacetate), a polystyrene or polycarbonate resin, an AS resin and so on, for example. In particular, an acryl resin and a polyvinyl chloride are preferred because of their excellent etching resistance, weather resistance and light resistance.In addition, in consideration of support property and light transmission of theconductive pattern40, thesubstrate30preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.03 mm and not more than 0.3 mm.Theconductive pattern40is described with reference toFIGS. 4 to 6. Theconductive pattern40is powered by thepower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so as to generate heat by means of resistance heat. The heat is transmitted to theglass plates11,12through thejoint layers13,14, so that theglass plates11,12are warmed up.A first feature of theconductive pattern40in this embodiment is a shape typically shown in the plan view ofFIG. 5. Theconductive pattern40includes a plurality ofconnection elements44that extend between twobranch points42to define a number ofopening areas43. Such openingareas43have random shapes and are arranged at random pitches. Typically, the openingareas43have shapes which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity), and are arranged at pitches which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity). A second feature of theconductive pattern40in this embodiment resides in that a rate of a sum of lengths of straight line segments of theconnection elements44connecting the twobranch points42, relative to a sum of lengths of theconnection elements44over the whole area of theconductive pattern40, is less than 20%. Herebelow, this fact can also be expressed that “a rate of the connection elements, which are straight line segments connecting the two branch points, relative to the plurality of connection elements, is less than 20%”.Theconductive pattern40having the above two features is typically formed by determining areference pattern50formed of a plurality ofling segments54that extend between twobranch points52to define openingareas53, then determining positions of the branch points42of theconductive pattern40based on the branch points52of thereference pattern50, and thereafter by determining positions of theconnection elements44of theconductive pattern40based on the determined branch points42of theconductive pattern40and theline segments54of thereference pattern50.FIG. 4is a plan view showing thereference pattern50. As shown inFIG. 4, thereference pattern50is a mesh-like pattern defining a number of theopening areas53. Thereference pattern50includes a plurality of theline segments54that extend between the twobranch points52to define theopening areas53. Namely, thereference pattern50is an aggregation of a number of theline segments54each forming the branch points52at both ends thereof.In the example shown inFIG. 4, a number of the openingareas53of thereference pattern50have shapes which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity) and are arranged at pitches which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity). Particularly in the illustrated example, the openingareas53are arranged so as to correspond to respective Voronoi areas in a Voronoi diagram obtained from generatrix points whose position coordinates in a plane have a predetermined random distribution. These randomly distributed generatrix points have a feature in which a distance between two adjacent generatrix points is distributed between a predetermined upper limit value and a predetermined lower limit value. In other words, therespective line segments54of thereference pattern50correspond to respective boundaries of the Voronoi areas in such a Voronoi diagram. In addition, the respective branch points52of thereference pattern50correspond to Voronoi points in the Voronoi diagram.Since the Voronoi diagram can be obtained by the known methods disclosed in JP2012-178556A, JP2011-216378A and JP2012-151116A, for example, detailed description of the method of creating the Voronoi diagram is omitted herein.FIG. 5shows, in enlargement, a part of theconductive pattern40together with thereference pattern50shown inFIG. 4. Firstly, the respective branch points42of theconductive pattern40are disposed on the respective branch points52of thereference pattern50. Then, therespective connection elements44of theconductive pattern40are disposed so as to connect the twobranch points42corresponding to the twobranch points52forming both ends of theline segments54of thereference pattern50. Eachconnection element44may be formed to have a linear shape (straight line segment), a curved shape or a shape formed by combining these shapes. For example, eachconnection element44may be formed to have a linear shape (straight line segment), an arcuate shape, a polygonal line shape, a corrugated shape and so on. A rate of theconnection elements44which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44, is less than 20%. Namely, 80% or more of theconnection elements44have a shape other than a linear shape (straight line segment), such as an arcuate shape, a polygonal line shape, a corrugated shape and so on.In the example shown inFIG. 5, theconductive pattern40includes a plurality the branch points42arranged on the respective branch points52of thereference pattern50, and a plurality of theconnection elements44that extend between the twobranch points42to define theopening areas43. A rate of theconnection elements44, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44, is less than 20%. Theconductive pattern40has a mesh-like pattern in which the plurality ofconnection elements44are arranged correspondingly to therespective line segments54of thereference pattern50.It is not necessary to specify a rate of theconnection elements44, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44, by checking all the area of theconductive pattern40and calculating the rate. Actually, it is possible to check the suitable number of elements to be checked in consideration of dispersion degree of elements, in a certain section having a planar dimension (an area) that is considered to be capable of reflecting a general tendency of a rate of the connection elements, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44, and calculate the rate. A value which was thus specified can be handled as a rate of theconnection elements44, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44. In theconductive pattern40in this embodiment, by observing 100 points included in an area of 300 mm×300 mm by means of an optical microscope or an electron microscope, a rate of theconnection elements44, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44can be specified.The material for constituting such aconductive pattern40may be selected from one or more of gold, silver, copper, platinum, aluminum, chrome, molybdenum, nickel, titanium, palladium, indium, tungsten and an alloy thereof, for example.In the example shown inFIG. 3, theconnection element44has asurface44aon the side of thesubstrate30, asurface44bon the side opposed to thesubstrate30, and side surfaces44cand44d. Theconnection element44has substantially a rectangular section in general. A width W of theconnection element44, i.e., the width W along the sheet plane of thesubstrate30is preferably not less than 1 μm and not more than 15 μm. Since theconnection element44having such a width W is sufficiently thin, theconductive pattern40can be effectively made invisible. In addition, a height (thickness) H of theconnection element44, i.e., the height (thickness) H along the normal direction to the sheet plane of thesubstrate30is preferably not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm. Further, the height H of theconnection element44is more preferably not less than 2 μm and not more than 20 μm. The height (thickness) of theconnection element44can be said as a height (thickness) of theconductive pattern40. Due to theconnection element44having such a thickness (height) H, a sufficient conductivity can be ensured while a suitable resistance value is provided.According to the above-describedconductive pattern40, as shown inFIG. 6, light incident on the side surface of theconnection element44having a shape other than a linear shape (straight line segment), such as an arcuate shape, a polygonal line shape, a corrugated shape and so on, is reflected irregularly on the side surface. Thus, it can be restrained that the light incident on the side surface of theconnection element44from a certain direction is reflected on the side surface in a certain direction correspondingly to the incident direction. Thus, it can be restrained that the reflected light is visible to an observer, so that theconductive pattern40having theconnection elements44is visible to the observer. In particular, a rate of theconnection elements44, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44, is less than 20%. That is to say, 80% or more of the plurality ofconnection elements44have a shape other than a linear shape (straight line segment), such as an arcuate shape, a polygonal line shape, a corrugated shape and so on. In this case, it can be more effectively restrained that light reflected on the side surface of theconnection element44is visible to an observer, so that theconductive pattern40having theconnection elements44is visible to the observer.In addition, when theconnection element44has the height (thickness) H of not less than 1 μm, in particular, when theconnection element44has the height H of not less than 2 μm, the light reflected on the side surface of theconnection element44is more likely to be visible to an observer. Thus, in this case, in order to restrain that the light reflected on the side surface of theconnection element44is visible to the observer, it is particularly effective that a rate of theconnection elements44, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44, is made to be less than 20%.Further, when a distribution of the openingareas43is sparse so that an average length Davebetween centers of gravity between the twoadjacent opening areas43is longer, the length of eachconnection element44is also longer. When the length of eachconnection element44is longer, light reflected on the side surface of theconnection element44in a certain direction is more visible. According to the research of the present inventors, when the average distance Davebetween the centers of gravity between the twoadjacent opening areas43is 80 μm or more, light reflected on the side surface of theconnection element44tends to be visible to an observer. The average distance Davemay be 70 μm or more. Thus, in this case, in order to restrain that the light reflected on the side surface of theconnection element44is visible to the observer, it is particularly effective that a rate of theconnection elements44, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44, is made to be less than 20%. The twoadjacent opening areas43mean twoadjacent opening areas43which share oneconnection element44. In addition, the distance D between centers of gravity G1, G2means a linear distance between the centers of gravity G1, G2.The average distance Davebetween the centers of gravity between the twoadjacent opening areas43is preferably 300 μm or less. When the average distance Davebetween the centers of gravity between the twoadjacent opening areas43is not less than 80 μm and not more than 300 μm, a line width of the connection element (thin conductive wire)44can be sufficiently thinned so as to be invisible, and calorific values at respective positions of theconductive pattern40can be sufficiently made uniform.In the example shown inFIG. 3, theconnection element44includes a firstdark color layer63disposed on thesubstrate30, aconductive metal layer61disposed on the firstdark color layer63, and a seconddark color layer64disposed on theconductive metal layer61. In other words, the surface of theconductive metal layer61, which is located on the side of thesubstrate30, is covered with the firstdark color layer63, and the surface of theconductive metal layer61, which is located on the side opposed to thesubstrate30, and both the side surfaces thereof are covered with the seconddark color layer64. Thedark color layer63,64may be a layer having a visible light reflectance lower than that of theconductive metal layer61. For example, thedark color layer63,64is a layer of a dark color such as black color. Owing to the dark color layers63,64, theconductive meal layer61can be more invisible, whereby a field of view of a passenger can be more suitably ensured.Next, an example of a manufacturing method of theheating plate10is described with reference toFIGS. 7 to 13.FIGS. 7 to 13are sectional views showing the example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate10in sequence.Firstly, the sheet-like substrate30is prepared. Thesubstrate30is an electrically insulating resin substrate that transmits light of a wavelength (380 nm to 780 nm) of a visible light wavelength band, which is generally recognized as transparent.Then, as shown inFIG. 7, the firstdark color layer63is disposed on thesubstrate30. For example, the firstdark color layer63can be disposed on thesubstrate30by a plating method including electrolytic plating and electroless plating, a spattering method, a CVD method, a PVD method, an ion plating method or a combination method of the two or more methods. Various known materials may be used as material of the firstdark color layer63. For example, the material may be copper nitride, copper oxide, nickel nitride and so on.Next, as shown inFIG. 8, the conductive metal layer (conductive layer)61is disposed on the firstdark color layer63. As described above, theconductive metal layer61is a layer made of one or more of gold, silver, copper, platinum, aluminum, chrome, molybdenum, nickel, titanium, palladium, indium, tungsten and an alloy thereof. Theconductive metal layer61may be formed by a known method. For example, there is employed a method of adhering a metal foil such as a copper foil by means of a weather-resistant adhesive or the like, a plating method including electrolytic plating and electroless plating, a spattering method, a CVD method, a PVD method, an ion plating method or a combination method of the two or more methods.When theconductive metal layer61is formed of a metal foil such as a copper foil, the following method may be employed. Namely, thefirst color layer63is formed previously on one surface of the metal foil in advance. Then, the metal foil with the firstdark color layer63is laminated on thesubstrate30through an adhesive layer or a gluing layer (pressure sensitive adhesive layer), such that thefirst color layer63faces thesubstrate30. In this case, the firstdark color layer63may be formed as follows. By subjecting a part of a material constituting the metal foil to a darkening treatment (blackening treatment), the firstdark color layer63made of metallic oxide or metallic sulfide can be formed from the part constituting the metal foil. Alternatively, the firstdark color layer63as a coating film made of a dark color material or a plated layer made of nickel or chrome may be disposed on a surface of the metal foil. In addition, the surface of the metal foil may be roughened, and the firstdark color layer63may be disposed thereon.Then, as shown inFIG. 9, a resistpattern62is disposed on theconductive metal layer61. The resistpattern62is a pattern that corresponds to a pattern of theconductive pattern40to be formed. In the method described herein, the resistpattern62is disposed only on a portion where theconductive pattern40is finally to be formed. The resistpattern62may be formed by a pattering method using a known photolithographic technique.Then, as shown inFIG. 10, theconductive metal layer61and the firstdark color layer63are etched with the resistpattern62serving as a mask. Due to this etching process, theconductive metal layer61and thefirst color layer63can be patterned substantially similar to the resistpattern62. The etching method is not particularly limited, and a known method may be employed. The known method may be a wet etching method using etchant, a plasma etching method and so on. Thereafter, as shown inFIG. 11, the resistpattern62is removed.After that, as shown inFIG. 12, the seconddark color layer64is formed on thesurface44bof theconductive metal layer61on the side opposed to thesubstrate30and the side surfaces44c,44d. The seconddark color layer64may be formed as follows. By subjecting a part of a material constituting theconductive metal layer61to a darkening treatment (blackening treatment), the seconddark color layer64made of metallic oxide or metallic sulfide can be formed from the part constituting theconductive metal layer61. Alternatively, the seconddark color layer64as a coating film made of a dark color material or a plated layer made of nickel or chrome may be disposed on a surface of the metal foil. In addition, the surface of theconductive metal layer61may be roughened, and the seconddark color layer64may be disposed thereon.In the manner as described above, theconductive pattern sheet20shown inFIG. 12is manufactured.Finally, theglass plate11, thejoint layer13, theconductive pattern sheet20, thejoint layer14and theglass plate12are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized. In the example shown inFIG. 13, firstly, thejoint layer13is provisionally attached to theglass plate11, and thejoint layer14is provisionally attached to theglass plate12. Then, theglass plate11to which thejoint layer13has been provisionally attached, theconductive pattern sheet20, theglass plate12to which thejoint layer14has been provisionally attached, are superposed in this order and heated/pressurized, in such a manner that the side of theglass plate11, to which thejoint layer13has been provisionally attached, and the side of theglass plate12, to which thejoint layer14has been provisionally attached, face theconductive pattern sheet20. Thus, theglass plate11, theconductive pattern sheet20and theglass plate12are joined through thejoint layers13,14, so that theheating plate10shown inFIG. 3is manufactured.Theaforementioned heating plate10in the first embodiment includes the pair ofglass plates11,12, theconductive pattern40disposed between the pair ofglass plates11,12and defining the plurality of openingareas43, and thejoint layers13,14disposed between theconductive pattern40and at least one of the pair ofglass plates11,12. Theconductive pattern40includes the plurality ofconnection elements44that extend between the twobranch points42to define theopening areas43. A rate of theconnection elements44, which are straight line segments connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44, is less than 20%.According to such aheating plate10, as shown inFIG. 6, light incident on the side surface of theconnection element44having a shape other than a linear shape (straight line segment), such as an arcuate shape, a polygonal line shape, a corrugated shape and so on, is reflected irregularly on the side surface. Thus, it can be restrained that the light incident on the side surface of theconnection element44from a certain direction is reflected on the side surface in a certain direction correspondingly to the incident direction. Thus, it can be restrained that the reflected light is visible to an observer, so that theconductive pattern40having theconnection elements44is visible to the observer.The above first embodiment can be variously modified. Modification examples are described herebelow with reference suitably to the drawings. In the below description and the drawings for the description, a component that can be similarly made as the above embodiment is shown by the same symbol as a component corresponding to the above embodiment, and overlapped description is omitted.A modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate10is described with reference toFIGS. 14 to 18.FIGS. 14 to 18are sectional views showing the modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate10in sequence.Firstly, theconductive pattern sheet20is manufactured. Theconductive pattern sheet20may be manufactured by the method as described above in the example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate10.Then, theglass plate11, thejoint layer13and theconductive pattern sheet20are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized. In the example shown inFIG. 14, thejoint layer13is provisionally attached to theglass plate11firstly. Then, theglass plate11to which thejoint layer13has been provisionally attached is superposed from the side of theconductive pattern40of theconductive pattern sheet20and heated/pressurized, in such a manner that the side of theglass plate11, to which thejoint layer13has been provisionally attached, faces theconductive pattern sheet20. Thus, as shown inFIG. 15, theglass plate11and theconductive pattern sheet20are joined (provisionally joined or completely joined) through thejoint layer13.Then, as shown inFIG. 16, thesubstrate30of theconductive pattern sheet20is removed. For example, during the manufacture of theconductive pattern sheet20, a peeling layer is formed on thesubstrate30, and theconductive pattern40is formed on the peeling layer. Preferably, the peeling layer is not removed in the step in which theconductive metal layer61and the firstdark color layer63are etched. In this case, thesubstrate30is joined to theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13through the peeling layer. In the step in which thesubstrate30is removed from theconductive pattern sheet20, thesubstrate30of theconductive pattern sheet20is peeled from theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13by means of the peeling layer.The peeling layer may be, for example, a peeling layer of an interface peeling type, a peeling layer of an interlayer peeling type, a peeling layer of a cohesion peeling type and so on. As a peeling layer of an interface peeling type, there may be suitably used a peeling layer having relatively a lower adhesive property to theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13, than an adhesive property to thesubstrate30. Such a layer may be a silicone resin layer, a fluororesin layer, a polyolefin resin layer and so on. In addition, it is possible to use a peeling layer having relatively a lower adhesive property to thesubstrate30, than an adhesive property to theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13. A peeling layer of an interlayer peeling type may be, for example, a peeling layer including a plurality of film layers, and having relatively a lower adhesive property between the plurality of layers, than an adhesive property to theconductive pattern40, thejoint layer13and thesubstrate30. A peeling layer of a cohesion peeling type may be, for example, a peeling layer formed by dispersing fillers as a dispersal phase in a base resin as a continuous phase.When a peeling layer of an interface peeling type including a layer having relatively a lower adhesive property to theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13, than an adhesive property to thesubstrate30, is used, a peeling phenomenon occurs between the peeling layer, and theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13. In this case, it is possible to make the peeling layer not remain on theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13. Namely, thesubstrate30is removed together with the peeling layer. When thesubstrate30and the peeling layer are removed in this manner, thejoint layer13is exposed into the openingareas43of theconductive pattern40.On the other hand, when a peeling layer of an interface peeling type having relatively a lower adhesive property to thesubstrate30, than an adhesive property to theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13, is used, a peeling phenomenon occurs between the peeling layer and thesubstrate30. When a peeling layer of an interlayer peeling type including a plurality of film layers, and having relatively a lower adhesive property between the plurality of layers, than an adhesive property to theconductive pattern40, thejoint layer13and thesubstrate30, is used, a peeling phenomenon occurs between the plurality of layers. When a peeling layer of a cohesion peeling type, which is formed by dispersing fillers as a dispersal phase in a base resin as a continuous phase, is used, a peeling phenomenon occurs in the peeling layer by cohesion failure.Finally, theglass plate11, thejoint layer13and theconductive pattern40, thejoint layer14, and theglass plate12are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized. In the example shown inFIG. 17, thejoint layer14is attached to theglass plate12firstly. Then, theglass plate11, theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13, and theglass plate12to which thejoint layer14has been provisionally attached are superposed in this order and heated/pressurized, in such a manner that the side of theglass plate12, to which thejoint layer14has been provisionally attached, faces theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13. Thus, theglass plate11, theconductive pattern40, theglass plate12are joined (completely joined) through thejoint layers13,14, whereby theheating plate10shown inFIG. 18is manufactured.According to theheating plate10shown inFIG. 18, theheating plate10can be free ofsubstrate30. Thus, the thickness of theheating plate10as a whole can be reduced. In addition, the number of boundary faces in theheating plate10can be reduced. Thus, deterioration of optical properties, i.e., deterioration of visibility can be restrained.Next, another modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate10is described with reference toFIGS. 19 and 20.FIGS. 19 and 20are sectional views showing the other modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate10in sequence.Firstly, by the same steps as those of the above modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate10, theglass plate11and theconductive pattern sheet20are joined (provisionally joined) through thejoint layer13. Then, thesubstrate30is removed therefrom. Namely, the laminate ofglass plate11, theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13is obtained, which is described in the above modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate10with reference toFIG. 16.Then, as shown inFIG. 19, theglass plate11, thejoint layer13and theconductive pattern40, and theglass plate12are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized. Thus, theglass plate11and theconductive pattern40are joined (completely joined) through thejoint layer13, and theglass plate11and theglass plate12are joined (completely joined) through thejoint layer13. Thus, theheating plate10shown inFIG. 20is manufactured.According to theheating plate10shown inFIG. 20, theheating plate10can be free of thesubstrate30and thejoint layer14. Thus, the thickness of theheating plate10as a whole can be further reduced. In addition, the number of boundary faces in theheating plate10can be further reduced. Thus, deterioration of optical properties, i.e., deterioration of visibility can be furthermore effectively restrained. Moreover, since theconductive pattern40and theglass plate12are in contact with each other, a heating efficiency of theglass plate12by theconductive pattern40can be increased.As another modification example,FIG. 21shows a modification example of the reference pattern. As shown inFIG. 21, areference pattern80is a mesh-like pattern defining a number ofopening areas83. Thereference pattern80includes a plurality ofline segments84that extend between twobranch points82to define theopening areas83. Namely, thereference pattern80is an aggregation of a number of theline segments84each forming the branch points82at both ends thereof. Particularly in the illustrated example, thereference pattern80has a shape obtained by elongating thereference pattern50shown inFIG. 4along a first direction (X). In other words, thereference pattern80has a shape obtained by compressing thereference pattern50shown inFIG. 4along a second direction (Y) perpendicular to the first direction (X).A part of aconductive pattern70, which is determined by the method described above with reference toFIG. 5, based on thereference pattern80is shown in enlargement inFIG. 22together with a corresponding part of thereference pattern80. In the example shown inFIG. 22, theconductive pattern70includes a plurality of branch points72arranged on the respective branch points82of thereference pattern80, and a plurality ofconnection elements74that extend between the two branch points72to define openingareas73. A rate of theconnection elements74, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the two branch points72, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements74, is less than 20%. Theconductive pattern70has a mesh-like pattern on which the plurality ofconnection elements74are arranged correspondingly to therespective line segments84of thereference pattern80.In the example shown inFIG. 22, an average of ratio (L1/L2) of a length L1of each openingarea73of theconductive pattern70along the first direction (X), relative to a length L2of theopening area73along the second direction (Y) perpendicular to the first direction (X), is not less than 1.3 and not more than 1.8. When theconductive pattern70includes theopening area73of such a dimension, light reflected on the side surface of theconnection element74is more likely to be visible to an observer. Thus, in this case, in order to restrain that the light reflected on the side surface of theconnection element74is visible to the observer, it is particularly effective that a rate of the connection elements, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the two branch points72, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements74is made to be less than 20%.It is not necessary to specify the respective dimensions of theconductive pattern40,70, such as an average distance Davebetween centers of gravity of the twoadjacent opening areas43, and an average of ratio (L1/L2) of a length L1of each openingarea73of theconductive pattern70along the first direction (X) relative to a length L2of theopening area73along the second direction (Y) perpendicular to the first direction (X), by checking all the areas of theconductive pattern40,70and calculating average values. Actually, it is possible to check the suitable number of elements to be checked (an average distance Davebetween centers of gravity of the twoadjacent opening areas43, and an average of ratio (L1/L2) of a length L1of each openingarea73of theconductive pattern70along the first direction (X) relative to a length L2of theopening area73along the second direction (Y) perpendicular to the first direction (X)) in consideration of dispersion degree of elements to be checked, in a certain section having a planar dimension (an area) that is considered to be capable of reflecting a general tendency of the elements to be checked, and calculate average values. Values which were thus specified can be handled as an average distance Davebetween centers of gravity of the twoadjacent opening areas43, and an average of ratio (L1/L2) of a length L1of each openingarea73of theconductive pattern70along the first direction (X) relative to a length L2of theopening area73along the second direction (Y) perpendicular to the first direction (X). In theconductive pattern40,70in this embodiment, by observing 100 points included in an area of 300 mm×300 mm by means of an optical microscope or an electron microscope, and calculating average values, respective dimensions of theconductive pattern40,70can be specified.As an anther modification example, in the above-described first embodiment, theconductive pattern40,70has a pattern determined based on the Voronoi diagram, i.e., a number of the openingareas53,83which have shapes which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity) and are arranged at pitches which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity). However, not limited to this pattern, there may be used, as the conductive pattern, various patterns such as a pattern in which triangular, rectangular, or hexagonal opening areas of the same shape are regularly arranged, a pattern in which opening areas of different shapes are regularly arranged, and so on.In addition, in the example shown inFIGS. 7 to 20, the seconddark color layer64provides thesurface44bof theconnection element44, which is opposed to thesubstrate30, and the side surfaces44c,44dthereof. However, not limited thereto, the seconddark color layer64may provide only thesurface44bof theconnection element44, which is opposed to thesubstrate30, or the side surfaces44c,44dthereof. When the seconddark color layer64provides only thesurface44bof theconnection element44, which is opposed to thesubstrate30, the seconddark color layer64and the resistpattern62are disposed in this order on the conductive metal layer (conductive layer)61, after the step shown inFIG. 8, for example. Thereafter, the seconddark color layer64, theconductive metal layer61and the firstdark color layer63may be etched with the resistpattern62serving as a mask. Alternatively, when the seconddark color layer64provides only the side surfaces44c,44dof theconnection element44, the seconddark color layer64is formed without removing the resistpattern62, after the step shown inFIG. 10, for example, and thereafter the resistpattern62is removed. When the firstdark color layer63is not necessary, the step of disposing the firstdark color layer63on thesubstrate30, which is shown inFIG. 7, may be omitted.Theheating plate10may be used in a rear window, a side window and a sun roof of theautomobile1. In addition, theheating plate10may be used in a window of a vehicle other than an automobile, such as a railway (train), an aircraft, a vessel, a space vessel and so on.Further, in addition to a vehicle, theheating plate10may be used in a part by which an inside and an outside is partitioned, such as a window of a building, a store and a house.Although some modification examples of the above first embodiment are described, the modification examples can be naturally combined with one another for application.Second EmbodimentFIG. 1andFIGS. 24 to 42are views for explaining a second embodiment according to the present invention. In the second embodiment described below, a component corresponding to that of the first embodiment is shown by a symbol in100swith the same last two digits, and overlapped description is omitted.FIG. 24is a view of a heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 25is a sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 24. The heating plate in this embodiment is sometimes referred to as “laminated glass”.FIG. 24shows aheating plate110when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 25is a cross-sectional view corresponding to a XXV-XXV line of theheating plate110ofFIG. 24. In the example shown inFIG. 25, theheating plate110includes a pair ofglass plates111,112, a conductive pattern sheet (pattern sheet)120disposed between the pair ofglass plates111,112, ajoint layer113that joins theglass plate111and theconductive pattern sheet120, and ajoint layer114that joins theglass plate112and theconductive pattern sheet120. In the example shown inFIGS. 1 and 24, theheating plate110is curved. However,FIGS. 25 and 35 to 42planarly show theheating plate110and theglass plates111,112, for simplifying the illustration and facilitating the understanding.Theconductive pattern sheet120includes a sheet-like substrate130, aholding layer131laminated on thesubstrate130, a conductive pattern (conductive pattern member)140formed on theholding layer131, awiring part15for powering theconductive pattern140, and aconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern140and thewiring part15.In the example shown inFIGS. 24 and 25, theconductive pattern140is powered by apower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so that theconductive pattern140generates heat by means of resistance heat. The heat generated by theconductive pattern140is transmitted to theglass plates111,112through thejoint layers113,114, so that theglass plates111,112are warmed up. Thus, dew drops on theglass plates111,112can be removed so that theglass plates111,112can be defogged. When there is snow or ice on theglass plates111,112, the snow or ice can be unfrozen. Thus, an excellent field of view of a passenger can be ensured.Particularly when used as a front window of an automobile, theglass plate111,112preferably has a high visible light transmittance, in order not to hinder a field of view of a passenger. A material of such aglass plate111,112may be soda lime glass, blue plate glass and so on, for example. Theglass plate111,112preferably has a transmittance of 90% or more in a visible light area. The visible light transmittance is specified as follows. The visible light transmittance of theglass plate111,112is specified as follows. Transmittance of light with measurement wavelength range of from 380 nm to 780 nm is measured by using a spectrophotometer (manufactured by Shimadzu Corporation, “UV-3100PC”, compliant with JIS K 0115). The visible light transmittance is an average value of the transmittances at the respective wavelengths. The visible light transmittance may be lowered by partially or totally coloring theglass plate111,112, for example. In this case, direct sunlight can be shielded and an inside of the automobile is less visible from outside.In addition, theglass plate111,112preferably has a thickness of not less than 1 mm and not more than 5 mm. With such a thickness, theglass plate111,112excellent in strength and optical properties can be obtained.Theglass plates111,112and theconductive pattern sheet120are joined to each other through thejoint layers113,114, respectively. As such ajoint layer113,114, a layer made of a material having various adhesion properties or gluing (pressure sensitive adhesive) properties. In addition, thejoint layer113,114preferably has a high visible light transmittance. A typical joint layer may be a layer made of polyvinyl butyral (PVB), for example. Thejoint layer113,114preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.15 mm and not more than 0.7 mm.Not limited to the illustrated example, theheating plate110may be provided with another function layer for exerting a specific function. In addition, one function layer may exert two or more functions. Alternatively, for example, a function may be given to at least one of theglass plate111,112of theheating plate110, thejoint layer113,114thereof, and thesubstrate130of theconductive pattern sheet120thereof, which is described later. The function that can be given toheating plate110may be an antireflection (AR) function, a hard coat (HC) function having an abrasion resistance, an infrared ray shield (reflection) function, an ultraviolet ray shield (reflection) function, a polarizing function, an antifouling function and so on, for example.Next, theconductive pattern sheet120is described. Theconductive pattern sheet120includes the sheet-like substrate130, theholding layer131laminated on thesubstrate130, theconductive pattern140formed on theholding layer131, thewiring part15for powering theconductive pattern140, and theconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern140and thewiring part15. Theconductive pattern sheet120may have a planar dimension (an area) substantially the same as that of theglass plate111,112so as to be placed all over theheating plate110. Alternatively, theconductive pattern sheet120may be placed over only a part of theheating plate110, such as a part in front of a driver's seat.The sheet-like substrate130functions as a substrate that supports theholding layer131and theconductive pattern140. Thesubstrate130is an electrically insulating substrate that transmits light of a wavelength (380 nm to 780 nm) of a visible light wavelength band, which is generally recognized as transparent. In the example shown inFIGS. 24, 26 and 27, thesubstrate130has substantially the same dimensions as those of theglass plate111,112and has substantially a trapezoidal planar shape.Any resin can be used as a resin to be contained in thesubstrate130, as long as it transmits visible light and can suitably support theholding layer131and theconductive pattern140. Preferably, a thermoplastic resin may be used. The thermoplastic resin may be an acryl resin made of, e.g., polymethyl methacrylate, a polyester resin made of, e.g., polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene terephthalate or amorphous polyethylene terephthalate (A-PET), a polyethylene resin, a polyolefin resin made of, e.g., polypropylene, a cellulose-based resin made of, e.g., triacetyl cellulose (cellulose triacetate), a polystyrene or polycarbonate resin, an AS resin and so on, for example. In particular, an acryl resin and a polyvinyl chloride are preferred because of their excellent etching resistance, weather resistance and light resistance.In addition, in consideration of support property and light transmission of theconductive pattern140, thesubstrate130preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.03 mm and not more than 0.3 mm.Theholding layer131has a function for improving a joint property between thesubstrate130and theconductive pattern140to hold theconductive pattern140. Theholding layer131may be formed either by laminating a transparent electrically insulating resin sheet with thesubstrate130or by coating thesubstrate130with a resin material. Theholding layer131may be made of, e.g., polyvinyl butyral (PVB), a two-pack curable urethane adhesive, or a two-pack curable epoxy adhesive. In addition, as described below, when theconductive pattern sheet120is joined (provisionally joined) to theglass plate111through thejoint layer113and then thesubstrate130is peeled, theholding layer131may include a peeling layer. A thickness of theholding layer131may be not less than 1 μm and not more than 100 μm, in consideration of a light transmission and a joint property to thesubstrate130and theconductive pattern140. Preferably, the thickness of theholding layer131may be not less than 1 μm and not more than 15 μm.Theconductive pattern140is described with reference toFIGS. 26 to 28.FIGS. 26 and 27are plan views of theconductive pattern sheet120when viewed in a normal direction of a sheet plane thereof.FIG. 28is a view showing in enlargement a part of theconductive pattern140ofFIG. 27.Theconductive pattern140is powered by thepower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so as to generate heat by means of resistance heat. The heat is transmitted to theglass plates111,112through thejoint layers113,114, so that theglass plates111,112are warmed up.FIG. 26shows an example of a pattern shape of theconductive pattern140. In the example shown inFIG. 26, theconductive pattern140includes a plurality of thinconductive wires141connecting a pair of theconnection parts16. In the illustrated example, each of the plurality of thinconductive wires141extends in a corrugated pattern from the oneconnection part16to theother connection part16. The thinconductive wires141are arranged apart from one another in a direction not in parallel with a direction in which the thinconductive wires141extend. In particular, the thinconductive wires141are arranged perpendicular to the direction in which the thinconductive wires141extend. In place of the corrugated shape, each thinconductive wire141may extend between the pair ofconnection parts16in a linear pattern, a polygonal line pattern or a sine wave pattern. The thinconductive wires141, which are adjacent to each other in a direction not in parallel with the direction in which the thinconductive wires141extend, may be connected via a thin wire, i.e., a connection wire.FIGS. 27 and 28show another example of a pattern shape of theconductive pattern140. In the example shown inFIGS. 27 and 28, the thinconductive wires141of theconductive pattern140are arranged in a mesh-like pattern defining a number ofopening areas144. Theconductive pattern140includes a plurality ofconnection elements145that extend between twobranch points143to define theopening areas144. Namely, thereference pattern140is an aggregation of a number of theconnection elements145each forming the branch points143at both ends thereof.In the example shown inFIGS. 27 and 28, a number of the openingareas144of theconductive pattern140have shapes which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity) and are arranged at pitches which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity). Particularly in the illustrated example, the openingareas144are arranged so as to correspond to respective Voronoi areas in a Voronoi diagram obtained from generatrix points whose position coordinates in a plane have a predetermined random two-dimensional distribution. These randomly distributed generatrix points have a feature in which a distance between two adjacent generatrix points is distributed between a predetermined upper limit value and a predetermined lower limit value. In other words, therespective connection elements145of theconductive pattern140correspond to respective boundaries of the Voronoi areas in such a Voronoi diagram. In addition, the respective branch points143of theconductive pattern140correspond to Voronoi points in the Voronoi diagram. Since the Voronoi diagram can be obtained by the known methods disclosed in JP2012-178556A and JP2013-238029A, for example, a detailed description of the method of creating the Voronoi diagram is omitted herein.When a conductive pattern has a number of opening areas that have shapes having a repeated regularity (periodic regularity), such as a tetragonal lattice arrangement or a honeycomb arrangement, and are arranged at pitches having a repeated regularity (periodic regularity), light beam stripes are sometimes visible because of the repeated regularity of the arrangement of the opening areas. These visible light beam stripes are caused when light enters a heating plate from a side opposite to an observer, e.g., when light of a headlight of an oncoming automobile enters a front window of the automobile, the light is dispersed to light beam stripes along a predetermined pattern such as a stripe pattern on the heating plate so that the light beam stripes can be seen. In particular, when a number of the opening areas of the conductive pattern have shapes having a repeated regularity and are arranged at pitches having a repeated regularity, such light beam stripes tend to be easily visible. The fact that the light beam stripes are visible to an observer such as a driver deteriorates a visibility of the observer through the pane. On the other hand, as shown inFIGS. 27 and 28, theconductive pattern140having a number of the openingareas144of theconductive pattern140have shapes which do not have a repeated regularity and are arranged at pitches which do not have a repeated regularity can effectively restrain generation of light beam stripes in theheating plate110.In theconductive pattern140shown inFIGS. 27 and 28, an average of the number of theconnection elements145extending from onebranch point143is more than 3.0 and less than 4.0. When an average of the number of theconnection elements145extending from onebranch point143is more than 3.0 and less than 4.0, an irregular honeycomb arrangement pattern can be obtained. When an average of the number of theconnection elements145extending from onebranch point143is more than 3M and less than 4.0, the arrangement of the openingareas144can be made irregular whereby the presence of a direction in which the openingareas144are arranged with a repeated regularity (periodic regularity) can be prevented stably. As a result, generation of light beam stripes in theheating plate110can be more effectively restrained. At the same time, since theconnection elements145are arranged basically based on a honeycomb arrangement, theconnection elements145are uniformly dispersed so that non-uniform heat generation can be effectively restrained.Strictly speaking, an average of the number ofconnection elements145extending from onebranch point143is obtained by checking the number of theconnection elements145extending from all the branch points143included in theconductive pattern140, and by calculating an average value. However, actually, considering a size of the oneopening area144defined by the thinconductive wires141, it is possible to check the branch points143the number of which is considered as suitable in consideration of dispersion degree of elements to be checked, in a certain section having a planar dimension (an area) that is considered to be capable of reflecting a general tendency of the number ofconnection elements145extending from the onebranch point143, and calculate an average value thereof. An average value which was thus specified can be handled as an average value of the number ofconnection elements145extending from onebranch point143. For example, an average value obtained by counting and calculating the number ofconnection elements145extending from the100branch points143included in an area of 300 mm×300 mm by means of an optical microscope or an electron microscope, can be handled as an average of the number of theconnection elements145extending from onebranch point143.In theconductive pattern140shown inFIGS. 27 and 28, theconductive pattern140includes the openingareas144surrounded by the four, five, six or sevenconnection elements145. Among the openingareas144included in theconductive pattern140, the number of openingareas144surrounded by the sixconnection elements145is predominant. Namely, as to the openingareas144included in theconductive elements145, the number of openingareas144surrounded by the sixconnection elements145is larger than the number of the openingareas144surrounded by the four, five or sevenconnection elements145.In such aconductive pattern140, the arrangement of the openingareas144is an irregular honeycomb arrangement in which the respective opening areas lack a regularity in shape and arrangement, as compared with a honeycomb arrangement in which in which hexagons of the same shape are regularly arranged. In other words, the openingareas144are arranged such that shapes and positions of the respective opening areas are random, basically based on the honeycomb arrangement. Thus, it can be restrained that the openingareas144are arranged too densely or too sparsely, whereby the openingareas144can be distributed at substantially uniform density, i.e., in a uniform manner. As a result, the heat generation non-uniformity can be effectively restrained. In addition, it is stably possible to make completely irregular the arrangement of the openingareas144, i.e., to prevent the presence of a direction in which the openingareas144are regularly arranged. Thus, generation of light beam stripes in theheating plate110can be more effectively restrained.Strictly speaking, the number ofconnection elements145surrounding oneopening area144is obtained by checking the number ofconnection elements145surrounding all the openingareas144included in theconductive pattern140. However, actually, considering a size of the oneopening area144defined by the thinconductive wires141, it is possible to check the openingareas144the number of which is considered to be suitable in consideration of the number of dispersion degree of elements to be checked, in a certain section having a planar dimension (an area) that is considered to be capable of reflecting a general tendency of the number ofconnection elements145surrounding oneopening area144, and multiply the number of openingareas144for each number of theconnection elements145surrounding theopening area144. For example, it can be judged which number of openingareas144surrounded by the certain number ofconnection elements145included in theconductive pattern140is the largest, by using a value obtained by counting the number ofconnection elements145surrounding the100openingareas144included in an area of 300 mm×300 mm by means of an optical microscope or an electron microscope, and multiplying the number of openingareas144for each number of theconnection elements145surrounding theopening area144.The material for constituting such aconductive pattern140may be one or more of metal such as gold, silver, copper, platinum, aluminum, chrome, molybdenum, nickel, titanium, palladium, indium, tungsten, and an alloy of metals selected from two or more kinds of these metals, such as nickel-chrome alloy, brass, bronze and so on, for example.Next, a sectional shape of the thinconductive wire141of theconductive pattern140is described with reference toFIG. 29.FIG. 29is a view showing in enlargement a section of theconductive pattern sheet120correspondingly to an A-A line inFIGS. 26 and 27.In the example shown inFIG. 29, theconductive pattern sheet120includes a sheet-like substrate130, aholding layer131laminated on thesubstrate130, and aconductive pattern140formed on theholding layer131. In a section (section shown inFIG. 29, which is referred to also as “main cut plane” hereinafter) perpendicular to an extension direction (longitudinal direction) of the thinconductive wire141, the thinconductive wire141has aproximal surface141bforming a surface on the side of thesubstrate130, adistal surface141afacing theproximal surface141b, andside surfaces141c,141dconnecting thedistal surface141aand theproximal surface141b. In this embodiment, thedistal surface141aof the thinconductive wire141forms a first surface which finally faces one of the pair ofglass plates111,112of theheating plate110, and theproximal surface141bof the thinconductive wire141forms a second surface which finally faces the other of the pair ofglass plates111,112of theheating plate110.In the heating plate in which theconductive pattern140shown inFIG. 29is incorporated, i.e., in theheating plate110shown inFIG. 25, when a width of thefirst surface141aof the thinconductive wire141along the plate plane of theheating plate110in the main cut plane is represented as W2a(μm), a width of thesecond surface141bof the thinconductive wire141along the plate plane of theheating plate110in the main cut plane is represented as W2b(μm), and a cross-sectional area of the thinconductive wire141in the main cut plane is represented as Sea (μm2), the following relationships are satisfied.0<|W2a−W2b|≤10  (a)S2a≥10  (b)In theconductive pattern sheet120shown inFIG. 29, when a width of theproximal surface141bof the thinconductive wire141along the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet120in the main cut plane is represented as W2d(μm), a width of thedistal surface141aof the thinconductive wire141along the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet120in the main cut plane is represented as W2(μm), and a cross-sectional area of the thinconductive wire141in the main cut plane is represented as S2b(μm2), the following relationships are satisfied.0<|W2c−W2d|≤10  (c)S2b≥10  (d)In the example shown inFIG. 29, the first surface (distal surface)141aof the thinconductive wire141and the second surface (proximal surface)141bthereof are in parallel. The oneside surface141cof the thinconductive wire141forms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to theother side surface141das a certain point in theside surface141cmoves away from thesubstrate130along a normal direction of the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet120. In addition, theother side surface141dof the thinconductive wire141forms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to the oneside surface141cas a certain point in theside surface141dmoves away from thesubstrate130along the normal direction of the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet120. Thus, the thinconductive wire141is formed such that a line width thereof becomes narrow as a certain point in the thinconductive wire141moves away from thesubstrate130along the normal direction of the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet120.In the example shown inFIG. 25, when theconductive layer140is incorporated in theheating plate110, the oneside surface141cof the thinconductive wire141forms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to theother side surface141das a certain point in theside surface141cmoves away from theglass plate12along a normal direction of the plate plane of theheating plate110. In addition, theother side surface141dof the thinconductive wire141forms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to the oneside surface141cas a certain point in theside surface141dmoves away from theglass plate112along the normal direction of the plate plane of theheating plate110. Thus, the thinconductive wire141is formed such that the line width thereof becomes narrow as a certain point in the thin conductive wire moves away from theglass plate112along the normal direction of the plate plane of theheating plate110.Namely, the thinconductive wire141has substantially a trapezoidal shape in general, in the section perpendicular to its extension direction (longitudinal direction). In more detail, oneside surface141cof the thinconductive wire141has a shape that is concaved inward (toward theother side surface141d) from a line L1connecting one end A along a direction (which is referred to as width direction of the thinconductive wire141herebelow) in parallel with the sheet plane of the conductive pattern sheet120(plate plane of the heating plate110) in the first surface (distal surface)141aand perpendicular to the extension direction of the thinconductive wire141, and one end B along the width direction of the thinconductive wire141in the second surface (proximal surface)141b. Similarly, theother side surface141dof the thinconductive wire141has a shape that is concaved inward (toward the oneside surface141c) from a line L2connecting the other end C along the width direction of the thinconductive wire141in the first surface (distal surface)141aand the other end D along the width direction of the thinconductive wire141in the second surface (proximal surface)141b.In theconductive pattern140as structured above, the widths W2a, W2cof the first surface (distal surface)141aof the thinconductive wire141may be not less than 2 μm and not more than 13 μm. In addition, the width W2b, W2dof the second surface (proximal surface)141bof the thinconductive wire141may be not less than 5 μm and not more than 15 μm. Further, a height H of the thinconductive wire141, i.e., the height H along the normal direction of the plate plane of the heating plate110(sheet plane of the conductive pattern sheet120) may be not less than 2 μm and not more than 15 μm. According to theconductive pattern140including the thinconductive wires141of such dimensions, since each thinconductive wire141is sufficiently thin, theconductive pattern140can be effectively made invisible.In the example shown inFIGS. 25 and 29, the width W2b of thesecond surface141bof the thin conductive wire141(width W2dof theproximal surface141bof the thin conductive wire141) corresponds to a maximum width W of the thinconductive wire141.According to theconductive pattern140including the thinconductive wires141having the dimensions and the cross-sectional areas satisfying the relationships (a) and (b) or the relationships (c) and (d), it is possible to ensure a cross-sectional area sufficient for obtaining a suitable conductivity, while reducing the maximum width W of the thinconductive wire141. Thus, a suitable conductivity of theconductive pattern140can be obtained, while theconductive pattern140can be effectively made invisible.On the other hand, when a value of (|W2a−W2b|) or (|W2c−W2d|) is greater than 10 μm, it is necessary to increase the maximum width W of the thinconductive wire141in order to ensure a sufficient cross-sectional area in terms of ensuring a suitable conductivity. In this case, the invisibility of theconductive pattern140is deteriorated. In addition, when the maximum width W of the thinconductive wire141is reduced, a sufficient cross-sectional area cannot be ensured so that an electric resistance of theconductive pattern140becomes too large. Thus, the conductivity of theconductive pattern140is deteriorated. That is to say, it is impossible to sufficiently ensure a suitable conductivity and to make invisible theconductive pattern140at the same time.As to the widths W2cof W2a, the first surface (distal surface)141aof the thinconductive wire141, the widths W2b, Wed of the second surface (proximal surface)141bof the thinconductive wire141, and the height H of the thinconductive wire141, actually it is possible to measure the respective dimensions of the thin conductive wires141(connection elements145) the number of which is considered to be suitable in consideration of dispersion degree of elements to be checked, in a certain section having a planar dimension (an area) that is considered to be capable of reflecting a general tendency of the respective dimensions. For example, dimensions obtained by measuring the100thin conductive wires141(connection elements145) included in an area of 300 mm×300 mm by means of an optical microscope or an electron microscope may be handled as the respective dimensions of the thin conductive wire141(connection element145) of theconductive pattern140.In the example shown inFIGS. 25 and 29, the thinconductive wire141constituting theconductive pattern140includes adark color layer149located on the side of thesubstrate130of the thinconductive wire141to form the second surface (proximal surface)141bof the thinconductive wire141, and aconductive metal layer148located on the side opposed to thesubstrate130of the thinconductive wire141to form the first surface (distal surface)141aof the thinconductive wire141. In other words, the surface of theconductive meal layer148on the side of thesubstrate130is covered with thedark color layer149.Thedark color layer149may be provided by subjecting a part of a material constituting theconductive metal layer148to a darkening treatment (blackening treatment), and forming a coating film made of metallic oxide or metallic sulfide on the part of theconductive metal layer148. Theconductive metal layer148and thedark color layer149have different etching speeds. In an etching step of theconductive metal layer148and thedark color layer149using a photolithographic technique as described below, by using thedark color layer149, the etching speed of theconductive metal layer148can be suitably adjusted. Since thedark color layer149formed by the darkening treatment (blackening treatment) has a roughened surface, thedark color layer149can exert an effect of improving contact between theconductive pattern140and theholding layer131.Next, an example of a manufacturing method of theheating plate110is described with reference toFIGS. 30 to 35.FIGS. 30 to 35are sectional views showing the example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate110in sequence.Firstly, ametal foil151is prepared, and adark color film152is formed on one surface of themetal foil151. Themetal foil151will form theconductive metal layer148of the thinconductive wire141. Thedark color film152will form thedark color layer149of the thinconductive wire14. Themetal foil151may be a foil made of metal such as gold, silver, copper, platinum, aluminum, chrome, molybdenum, nickel, titanium, palladium, indium, and an alloy of metals selected from two or more kinds of these metals, such as nickel-chrome alloy, brass and so on, for example. In addition, a thickness of themetal foil151may be not less than 2 μm and not more than 15 μm. Thedark color film152may be provided by subjecting a part of a material constituting themetal foil151to a darkening treatment (blackening treatment), and forming a coating film made of metallic oxide or metallic sulfide on the part of themetal foil151.In addition, thesubstrate130is prepared, and theholding layer131is formed on one surface of thesubstrate130. Thesubstrate130may be made of a thermoplastic resin transmitting visible light, for example. The thermoplastic resin may be an acryl resin made of, e.g., polymethyl methacrylate, a polyester resin made of, e.g., polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene terephthalate (PET), amorphous polyethylene terephthalate (A-PET) or polyethylene naphthalate (PEN), a polyolefin resin made of, e.g., polyethylene, polypropylene, polymethyl pentene or cyclic polyolefin, a cellulose-based resin made of, e.g., triacetyl cellulose (cellulose triacetate), a polystyrene or polycarbonate resin, an AS resin and so on, for example. In particular, an acryl resin and polyvinyl chloride are preferred because of their excellent etching resistance, weather resistance and light resistance. Theholding layer131may be made of, e.g., polyvinyl butyral (PVB), a two-pack curable urethane adhesive, or a two-pack curable epoxy adhesive. Theholding layer131may be formed by laminating a sheet-like material on thesubstrate130, or may be formed by applying a flowable material to thesubstrate130.Then, as shown inFIG. 30, themetal foil151on which thedark color film152has been formed and thesubstrate130on which theholding layer131has been formed are laminated in such a manner that thedark color film152and theholding layer131face to each other. At this time, since the surface of thedark color film152in contact with theholding layer131is roughened by the darkening treatment (blackening treatment), the resin material constituting theholding layer131enter fine irregularities in the surface of thedark color film152. Thus, thedark color film152and theholding layer131are securely joined to each other by a so-called anchoring effect. Thus, themetal foil151and thesubstrate130are securely joined to each other. Thus, as shown inFIG. 31, there is obtained a laminate in which thesubstrate130, the holding layer135, thedark color film152and themetal foil151are superposed in this order.Next, as shown inFIG. 32, a resistpattern155is disposed on themetal foil151. The resistpattern155is a pattern corresponding to a pattern of theconductive pattern140to be formed. In the method described herein, the resistpattern155is disposed only a portion where theconductive pattern140is finally to be formed. The resistpattern155may be formed by a patterning method using a known photolithographic technique.Then, as shown inFIG. 33, themetal foil151including thedark color film152is etched (etched by corrosion) with the resistpattern155serving as a mask. Due to this etching process, themetal foil151including thedark color film152can be patterned substantially similar to the resistpattern155. As a result, theconductive metal layer148and thedark color layer149, which will form the thinconductive wire141, is formed from the patternedmetal foil151. As a corrosion solution used in the etching process, a known corrosion solution may be suitably selected and used depending on a material(s) of themetal foil151and the dark color film152(if it exits). For example, when themetal foil151is made of copper and thedark color film152is made of copper oxide (II) (CuO), a ferric chloride solution may be used for both themetal foil151and thedark color film152. Alternatively, a ferric chloride solution may be used for a part (copper) forming themetal foil151, and diluted hydrochloric acid may be used for a part (copper oxide (II)) forming thedark color film152.Generally, as compared with theconductive metal layer148made of a metal material, thedark color layer149made of oxide or sulfide of the metal material is easily corroded by etching. Thus, as compared with thedark color layer149, lateral corrosion by side etching is more likely to proceed in theconductive metal layer148. Thus, the lateral corrosion by side etching is more likely to proceed in theconductive metal layer148than in thedark color layer149. In addition, also in theconductive metal layer148, the lateral corrosion by side etching is more likely to proceed in an area distant from thedark color layer149than in an area close to thedark color layer149. Thus, by selecting an etchant and adjusting an etching period, the thinconductive wire141can be manufactured, which has a width that changes to narrow from the side of thesubstrate130toward the resistpattern155, i.e., which has a tapered cross-sectional shape. Similarly, by selecting an etchant and adjusting an etching period, the widths W2a, W2cof the first surface (distal surface)141aof the thinconductive wire141and the widths W2b, Wed of the second surface (proximal surface)141bthereof can be formed into desired widths.Thereafter, the resistpattern155is removed so that theconductive pattern sheet120shown inFIG. 34is manufactured.Finally, theglass plates111, thejoint layer113, theconductive pattern sheet120, thejoint layer114and theglass plate112are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized. In the example shown inFIG. 35, thejoint layer113is provisionally attached to theglass plate111, and thejoint layer114is provisionally attached to theglass plate112. Then, theglass plate111to which thejoint layer113has been provisionally attached, theconductive pattern sheet120, and theglass plate112to which thejoint layer114has been provisionally attached are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized, in such a manner that the side of theglass plate111, to which thejoint layer113has been provisionally attached, and the side of theglass plate112, to which thejoint layer114has been provisionally attached, face theconductive pattern sheet120. Thus, theglass plates111, theconductive pattern sheet120and theglass plates112are joined through thejoint layers113,114, whereby theheating plate110shown inFIG. 25is manufactured.Theaforementioned heating plate110in this embodiment includes the pair ofglass plates111,112, theconductive pattern140disposed between the pair ofglass plates111,112and including the thinconductive wires141, and thejoint layers113,114disposed between theconductive pattern140and at least one of the pair ofglass plates111,112. The thinconductive wire141of theconductive pattern140has thefirst surface141afacing one of the pair ofglass plates111,112, and thesecond surface141bfacing the other of the pair ofglass plates111,112. When a width of thefirst surface141aof the thinconductive wire141is represented as W2a(μm), a width of thesecond surface141bof the thinconductive wire14is represented as W2b(μm), and a cross-sectional area of the thinconductive wire141is represented as S2a(μm2), the following relationships represented (a) and (b) are satisfied.0<|W2a−W2b|≤10  (a)S2a≥10  (b)In addition, the aforementionedconductive pattern sheet120in the second embodiment includes thesubstrate130, and theconductive pattern sheet140disposed on thesubstrate130and including the thinconductive wires141. The thinconductive wire141of theconductive pattern140has theproximal surface141bforming the surface on the side of thesubstrate130, and thedistal surface141afacing theproximal surface141b. When a width of thedistal surface141aof the thinconductive wire141is represented as W2c(μm), a width of theproximal surface141bof the thinconductive wire141is represented as W2d(μm), and a cross-sectional area of the thinconductive wire141is represented as S2b(μm2), the following relationships represented (c) and (d) are satisfied.0<|W2c−W2d|≤10  (c)S2b≥10  (d)According to such aheating plate110and such aconductive pattern sheet120, it is possible to ensure a cross-sectional area sufficient for obtaining a suitable conductivity, while reducing the maximum width W (in the example shown inFIGS. 25 and 29, W2b, W2d) of the thinconductive wire141. Thus, a suitable conductivity of theconductive pattern140can be obtained, while theconductive pattern140can be effectively made invisible.The aforementioned second embodiment can be variously modified. Modification examples are described with reference suitably to the drawings. In the below description and the drawings for the description, a component that can be similarly made as the above embodiment is shown by the same symbol as a component corresponding to the above embodiment, and overlapped description is omitted.A modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate110is described with reference toFIGS. 36 to 40.FIGS. 36 to 40are sectional views showing the modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate110in sequence.Firstly, theconductive pattern sheet120is manufactured. Theconductive pattern sheet120may be manufactured by the method as described above in the example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate110.Then, theglass plate111, thejoint layer113and theconductive pattern sheet120are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized. In the example shown inFIG. 36, thejoint layer113is provisionally attached to theglass plate111firstly. Then, theglass plate111to which thejoint layer113has been provisionally attached is superposed from the side of theconductive pattern140of theconductive pattern sheet120and heated/pressurized, in such a manner that the side of theglass plate111, to which thejoint layer113has been provisionally attached, faces theconductive pattern sheet120. Thus, as showing inFIG. 37, theglass plates111and theconductive pattern sheet120are joined (provisionally joined or completely joined) through thejoint layer113.Then, as shown inFIG. 38, thesubstrate130of theconductive pattern sheet120is removed. For example, when theholding layer131is formed to include a peeling layer, thesubstrate130of theconductive pattern sheet120can be peeled from theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113by means of the peeling layer.The peeling layer may be, for example, a peeling layer of an interface peeling type, a peeling layer of an interlayer peeling type, a peeling layer of a cohesion peeling type and so on. As a peeling layer of an interface peeling type, there may be suitably used a peeling layer having relatively a lower adhesive property to theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113, than an adhesive property to thesubstrate130. Such a layer may be a silicone resin layer, a fluororesin layer, a polyolefin resin layer and so on. In addition, it is possible to use a peeling layer having relatively a lower adhesive property to thesubstrate130, than an adhesive property to theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113. A peeling layer of an interlayer peeling type may be, for example, a peeling layer including a plurality of film layers, and having relatively a lower adhesive property between the plurality of layers, than an adhesive property to theconductive pattern140, thejoint layer113and thesubstrate130. A peeling layer of a cohesion peeling type may be, for example, a peeling layer formed by dispersing fillers as a dispersal phase in a base resin as a continuous phase.When a peeling layer of an interface peeling type including a layer having relatively a lower adhesive property to theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113, than an adhesive property to thesubstrate130, is used, a peeling phenomenon occurs between the peeling layer, and theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113. In this case, it is possible to make the peeling layer not remain on theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113. Namely, thesubstrate130is removed together with the peeling layer. When thesubstrate130and the peeling layer are removed in this manner, thejoint layer113is exposed into the openingareas144of theconductive pattern140.On the other hand, when a peeling layer of an interface peeling type having relatively a lower adhesive property to thesubstrate130, than an adhesive property to theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113, is used, a peeling phenomenon occurs between the peeling layer and thesubstrate130. When a peeling layer of an interlayer peeling type including a plurality of layers, and having relatively a lower adhesive property between the plurality of film layers, than an adhesive property to theconductive pattern140, thejoint layer113and thesubstrate130, is used, a peeling phenomenon occurs between the plurality of layers. When a peeling layer of a cohesion peeling type, which is formed by dispersing fillers as a dispersal phase in a base resin as a continuous phase, is used, a peeling phenomenon occurs in the peeling layer by cohesion failure.Finally, theglass plate111, thejoint layer113and theconductive pattern140, thejoint layer114, and theglass plate112are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized. In the example shown inFIG. 39, thejoint layer114is attached to theglass plate112firstly. Then, theglass plate111, theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113, and theglass plate112to which thejoint layer114has been provisionally attached are superposed in this order and heated/pressurized, in such a manner that the side of theglass plate112, to which thejoint layer114has been provisionally attached, faces theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113. Thus, theglass plate111, theconductive pattern140, theglass plates112are joined (completely joined) through thejoint layers113,114, whereby theheating plate110shown inFIG. 40is manufactured.According to theheating plate110shown inFIG. 40, theheating plate110can be free ofsubstrate130. Thus, the thickness of theheating plate110as a whole can be reduced. In addition, the number of boundary faces in theheating plate110can be reduced. Thus, deterioration of optical properties, i.e., deterioration of visibility can be restrained.Next, another modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate110is described with reference toFIGS. 41 and 42.FIGS. 41 and 42are sectional views showing the other modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate110in sequence.Firstly, by the same steps as those of the above modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate110, theglass plate111and theconductive pattern sheet120are joined (provisionally joined) through thejoint layer113. Then, thesubstrate130is removed therefrom. Namely, the laminate of theglass plate111, theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113is obtained, which is described in the above modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate110with reference toFIG. 38.Then, as shown inFIG. 41, theglass plate111, thejoint layer113and theconductive pattern140, and theglass plate112are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized. Thus, theglass plate111and theconductive pattern140are joined (completely joined) through thejoint layer113, and theglass plate111and 0s theglass plate112are joined (completely joined) through thejoint layer113. Thus, theheating plate110shown inFIG. 42is manufactured.According to theheating plate10shown inFIG. 42, theheating plate110can be free of thesubstrate130and thejoint layer114. Thus, the thickness of theheating plate110as a whole can be further reduced. In addition, the number of boundary faces in theheating plate110can be further reduced. Thus, deterioration of optical properties, i.e., deterioration of visibility can be furthermore effectively restrained. Moreover, since theconductive pattern140and theglass plate112are in contact with each other, a heating efficiency of theglass plate112by theconductive pattern140can be increased.In the aforementioned second embodiment, the plurality ofconnection elements145included in theconductive pattern140each have a linear shape (linear line segments) when viewed in the normal direction of the plate plane of theheating plate110. However, not limited thereto, at least some of the plurality ofconnection elements145may have a shape other than a linear shape such as a curved shape or a polygonal line shape. Specifically, theconnection element145may have an arcuate shape, a parabolic shape, a corrugated shape, a zigzag shape, a combination shape of a curved line and a linear line, and so on. In particular, it is preferable that a rate of theconnection elements145which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points143, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements145, is less than 20%. Namely, it is preferable that 80% or more of theconnection elements145have a shape other than a linear shape (straight line segment).According to theconductive pattern140including theconnection elements145having a shape other than a linear shape (straight line segment), light incident on the side surface of theconnection element145having a curved shape or a polygonal line shape and so on is reflected irregularly on the side surface. Thus, it can be restrained that the light incident on the side surface of theconnection element145from a certain direction (headlight of an oncoming automobile, sunlight and so on) is reflected on the side surface in a certain direction correspondingly to the incident direction. Thus, it can be restrained that the reflected light is visible to an observer such as a driver, so that theconductive pattern140having theconnection elements145is visible to the observer. As a result, the deterioration of visibility of an observer through a pane, which is caused by the visibleconductive pattern140, can be restrained.In the aforementioned second embodiment, theconductive pattern140has a pattern determined based on the Voronoi diagram, i.e., a number of the openingareas144which have shapes which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity) and are arranged at pitches which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity). However, not limited to this pattern, there may be used, as theconductive pattern140, various patterns such as a pattern in which triangular, rectangular, or hexagonal opening areas of the same shape are regularly arranged, a pattern in which opening areas of different shapes are regularly arranged, and so on.Theheating plate110may be used in a rear window, a side window and a sun roof of theautomobile1. In addition, theheating plate110may be used in a window or a transparent part of a door of a vehicle other than an automobile, such as a railway, an aircraft, a vessel, a space vessel and so on, or a window or a door of a building, and a window or a transparent part of a door of a refrigerator, an exhibition box and a storage or preservation installation such as a cabinet.Further, in addition to a vehicle, theheating plate110may be used in a part by which an inside and an outside is partitioned, such as a window of a building, a store and a house.Although some modification examples of the above second embodiment are described, the modification examples can be naturally combined with one another for application.Third EmbodimentFIG. 1andFIGS. 43 to 56are views for explaining a third embodiment according to the present invention. In the third embodiment described below, a component corresponding to that of the first and second embodiments is shown by a symbol in200swith the same last two digits, and overlapped description is omitted.FIG. 43is a view of a heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 44is a cross sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 43.FIG. 45is a view showing conditions of respective members constituting the heating plate ofFIG. 44before the respective members are laminated. The heating plate in this embodiment is sometimes referred to as “laminated glass”.FIG. 43shows aheating plate210when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 44is a cross-sectional view corresponding to a XLIV-XLIV line of theheating plate210ofFIG. 43. Theheating plate210includes a pair ofcurved glass plates211,212, a conductive pattern sheet (pattern sheet)220disposed between the pair ofcurved glass plates211,212, ajoint layer213that joins theglass plate211and theconductive pattern sheet220, and ajoint layer214that joins theglass plate212and theconductive pattern sheet220.Theconductive pattern sheet220includes asubstrate230, aconductive pattern240formed on thesubstrate230, awiring part15for powering theconductive pattern240, and aconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern240and thewiring part15.In the example shown inFIGS. 43 and 44, theconductive pattern240is powered by apower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so that theconductive pattern240generates heat by means of resistance heat. The heat generated by theconductive pattern240is transmitted to theglass plates211,212through thejoint layers213,214, so that theglass plates211,212are warmed up. Thus, dew drops on theglass plates211,212can be removed so that theglass plates211,112can be defogged. When there is snow or ice on theglass plates211,212, the snow or ice can be unfrozen. Thus, an excellent field of view of a passenger can be ensured.In order to manufacture theheating plate210, as shown inFIG. 45, thecurved glass plate211, thejoint layer213, theconductive pattern sheet220, thejoint layer214and thecurved glass plate212are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized, so that thecurved glass plates211, theconductive pattern sheet220and thecurved glass plates212are joined by thejoint layers213,214.Particularly when used as a front window, theglass plate211,212preferably has a high visible light transmittance in order not to hinder a field of view of a passenger. A material of such aglass plate211,212may be soda lime glass, blue plate glass and so on, for example. Theglass plate211,212preferably has a transmittance of 90% or more in a visible light area. The visible light transmittance of theglass plate211,212is specified as follows. Transmittance of light with measurement wavelength range of from 380 nm to 780 nm is measured by using a spectrophotometer (manufactured by Shimadzu Corporation, “UV-3100PC”, compliant with JIS K 0115). The visible light transmittance is an average value of the transmittances at the respective wavelengths. The visible light transmittance may be lowered by partially or totally coloring theglass plate211,212, for example. In this case, direct sunlight can be shielded and an inside of the automobile is less visible from outside.In addition, theglass plate211,212preferably has a thickness of not less than 1 mm and not more than 5 mm. With such a thickness, theglass plate211,212excellent in strength and optical properties can be obtained.Theglass plates211,212and theconductive pattern sheet220are joined to each other through thejoint layers213,214, respectively. As such ajoint layer213,214, a layer made of a material having various adhesion properties or gluing (pressure sensitive adhesive) properties can be employed. In addition, thejoint layer213,214preferably has a high visible light transmittance. A typical joint layer may be a layer made of polyvinyl butyral (PVB), for example. Thejoint layer213,214preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.15 mm and not more than 0.7 mm.Not limited to the illustrated example, theheating plate210may be provided with another function layer for exerting a specific function. In addition, one function layer may exert two or more functions. Alternatively, for example, a function may be given to at least one of theglass plate211,212of theheating plate210, thejoint layer213,214thereof, and thesubstrate230of theconductive pattern sheet220thereof, which is described later. The function that can be given toheating plate210may be an antireflection (AR) function, a hard coat (HC) function having an abrasion resistance, an infrared ray shield (reflection) function, an ultraviolet ray shield (reflection) function, a polarizing function, an antifouling function and so on, for example.Next, theconductive pattern sheet220is described. Theconductive pattern sheet220includes thesubstrate230, theconductive pattern240disposed on thesubstrate230, thewiring part15for powering theconductive pattern240, and theconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern240and thewiring part15. Theconductive pattern sheet220may have a planar dimension substantially the same as that of theglass plate211,212so as to be placed all over theheating plate210. Alternatively, theconductive pattern sheet220may be placed over only a part of theheating plate210, such as a part in front of a driver's seat.Thesubstrate230functions as a substrate that supports theconductive pattern240. Thesubstrate230is an electrically insulating substrate that transmits light of a wavelength (380 nm to 780 nm) of a visible light wavelength band, which is generally recognized as transparent. Thesubstrate230contains a thermoplastic resin.A thermoplastic resin contained as a main component in thesubstrate230may be any thermoplastic resin as long as it transmits visible light. The thermoplastic resin may be an acryl resin made of, e.g., polymethyl methacrylate, a polyolefin resin made of e.g., polypropylene, a polyester resin made of, e.g., polyethylene terephthalate or polyethylene naphthalate, a cellulose-based resin made of, e.g., triacetyl cellulose (cellulose triacetate), polyvinyl chloride, polystyrene, a polycarbonate resin, an AS resin and so on, for example. In particular, an acryl resin and polyethylene terephthalate are preferred because of their excellent optical properties and moldability.In addition, in consideration of support property during manufacture and light transmission of theconductive pattern240, thesubstrate230preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.02 mm and not more than 0.20 mm.Theconductive pattern240is described with reference toFIGS. 46 to 48.FIG. 46is a plan view of theconductive pattern sheet220when viewed in a normal direction of a sheet plane thereof, showing an example of an arrangement pattern of theconductive pattern240.Theconductive pattern240is powered by thepower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so as to generate heat by means of resistance heat. The heat is transmitted to theglass plates211,212through thejoint layers213,214, so that theglass plates211,212are warmed up.Theconductive pattern240shown inFIG. 46includes a plurality of thinconductive wires241that are arranged in a line and space pattern. Namely, theconductive pattern240includes the plurality of thinconductive wires241arranged in one direction. Each thinconductive wire241extends in the other direction not in parallel with the one direction, apart from another thinconductive wire241adjacent in the one direction. In the illustrated example, each thinconductive wire241is apart from another thinconductive wire241and connects the pair ofconnection parts16. Namely, in the illustrated example, the one direction is an extension direction of theconnection part16, which is an up and down direction of theautomobile1. In addition, the other direction is a right and left direction of theautomobile1. Although each thinconductive wire241extends in the other direction in a corrugated pattern, the thinconductive wire241may extend in a polygonal line shape or in a linear shape.Although not formed in the illustrated example, theconductive pattern240may include a thin wire connecting adjacent thinconductive wires241, i.e., a connection line. In addition, in the illustrated example, each thinconductive wire241extends in the right and left direction of theautomobile1, which is the other direction, each thinconductive wire241may extend in the up and down direction of theautomobile1.In this embodiment, a copper film is used as a material for constituting such aconductive pattern240. A copper film means an electrolytic copper foil, a rolled copper foil, a copper film formed (deposited) by a spattering method, a vacuum deposition method and so on. Although the details are described later, theconductive pattern240is formed by patterning a copper film by an etching process.FIG. 47is a sectional view corresponding to an A-A line ofFIG. 46, showing an example of a sectional shape of the thin conductive wire. The plurality of thinconductive wires241constituting theconductive pattern240are formed on thesubstrate230. In the illustrated example, the thinconductive wire241has asurface241aon the side of thesubstrate230, asurface241bon the side opposed to thesubstrate230, andside surfaces241c,241d. The thinconductive wire241has substantially a rectangular section in general. In this embodiment, a line width W (herebelow simply as “width”) of the thinconductive wire241, i.e., the width W along the sheet plane of thesubstrate230is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm, preferably not less than 2 μm and not more than 15 μm. Thus, theconductive pattern240is seen transparent in general, and has an excellent see-through property. In addition, a height (thickness) H of the thinconductive wire241, i.e., the height (thickness) H along the normal direction to the sheet plane of thesubstrate230is preferably not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm, and more preferably not less than 1 μm and not more than 10 μm. Since the thinconductive wire241having such a height dimension, in addition to the line width W, is sufficiently thin, theconductive pattern240can be effectively made invisible.InFIG. 47, the symbol P represents a pitch between the adjacent thin conductive wires (distance between the adjacent thin conductive wires241) in theconductive pattern240. The pitch P is not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm. The pitch may be not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 7 mm.In addition, the thinconductive wire241includes a firstdark color layer246disposed on thesubstrate230, aconductive metal layer245disposed on the firstdark color layer246, and a seconddark color layer247disposed on theconductive metal layer245. In other words, the surface of theconductive metal layer245on the side of thesubstrate230is covered with the firstdark color layer246, and the surface of theconductive metal layer245on the side opposed to thesubstrate230and both side surfaces thereof are covered with the seconddark color layer247.Theconductive metal layer245made of a metal material has relatively a high reflectance. When light is reflected on theconductive metal layer245forming theconductive metal wires241of theconductive pattern240, the reflected light may be visible, which hinders a field of view of a passenger. In addition, when theconductive metal layer245is visible from outside, design is sometimes impaired. Thus, the dark color layers246,247are disposed at least a part of the surface of theconductive metal layer245. The dark color layers246,247are layer having a visible light reflectance that is lower than that of theconductive metal layer245, and are black-colored dark color layers, for example. Due to the dark color layers246,247, theconductive metal layer245becomes less visible, whereby an excellent field of view of a passenger can be ensured. In addition, impairment of design when seen from outside can be prevented. However, such dark color layers246,247may be omitted. In this case, the width W of the thinconductive wire241is a width of the singleconductive metal layer245.FIG. 48is a sectional view corresponding to the A-A line ofFIG. 46, showing another sectional shape of the conductive metal wire. In the illustrated example, theconductive metal wire241includes asurface241aon the side of thesubstrate230, asurface241bon the side opposed to thesubstrate230, andside surfaces241c,241d. Thesurface241aon the side of thesubstrate230and thesurface241bon the side opposed to thesubstrate230are in parallel. Theside surface241cforms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to theside surface241das a certain point in theside surface241cmoves away from thesubstrate230along the normal direction of the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet220. Theside surface241dalso forms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to theside surface241cas a certain point in theside surface241dmoves away from thesubstrate230along the normal direction of the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet220. The thinconductive wire241has substantially a trapezoidal section in general. Namely, the width of the thinconductive wire241changes to narrow as a certain point in the thinconductive wire241moves away from thesubstrate230along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet220. In addition, similarly to the example shown inFIG. 47, the surface of theconductive metal layer245on the side of thesubstrate230is covered with the firstdark color layer246, and the surface of theconductive metal layer245on the side opposed to thesubstrate230and both side surfaces thereof are covered with the seconddark color layer247.FIG. 48shows that the thinconductive wire241has substantially a trapezoidal section in general, and that the width of the thinconductive wire241changes to narrow as a certain point in the thinconductive wire241moves away from thesubstrate230along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet220. However, not limited thereto, the side surfaces241c,241dmay be formed of curved lines, or may be formed in a tier-like shape. In addition, the width of the thinconductive wire241may be partially wider as a certain point in the thinconductive wire241moves away from thesubstrate230along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet220. Namely, when the section of the thinconductive wire241is seen generally and comprehensively, it is sufficient that the width of theconductive wire241changes to narrow as a certain point in the thinconductive wire241moves away from thesubstrate230along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet220.In the example shown inFIG. 48, since the width of the thinconductive wire241changes to narrow as a certain point in the thinconductive wire241moves away from thesubstrate230along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet220, when theglass plates211,212, thejoint layers213,214and theconductive pattern sheet220are laminated, theconductive pattern240can be reliably embedded in thejoint layer213, and bubbles in an interface between theconductive pattern240and thejoint layer213can be restrained from remaining therein.Next, an example of a manufacturing method of theheating plate210is described with reference toFIGS. 49 to 56.FIGS. 49 to 56are sectional views showing the example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate210in sequence, particularly views for explaining manufacture of theconductive pattern sheet220in detail. After theconductive pattern sheet220is manufactured, theconductive pattern sheet220is sandwiched between theglass plates211,212so that theheating plate210is manufactured.In order to manufacture theconductive pattern sheet220, as shown inFIG. 49, thesubstrate230is firstly prepared. Thesubstrate230is an electrically insulating substrate that transmits light of a wavelength (380 nm to 780 nm) of a visible light wavelength band, which is generally recognized as transparent. Thesubstrate230contains a thermoplastic resin.Then, as shown inFIG. 50, the firstdark color246is disposed on thesubstrate230. For example, the first dark color layer263can be disposed on thesubstrate230by a plating method including electrolytic plating and electroless plating, a spattering method, a vacuum deposition method, an ion plating method, a PVD method and a CVD method other than these methods, or a combination method of the two or more methods. Various known materials may be used as material of the firstdark color layer246. For example, the material may be copper nitride, copper oxide, nickel nitride and so on.Then, as shown inFIG. 51, theconductive metal layer245is disposed on the firstdark color layer246. Theconductive metal layer245is a layer formed of a copper film. When an electrolytic copper foil or a rolled copper foil is used to form theconductive metal layer245, theconductive metal layer245is disposed on the firstdark color layer246through a two-pack mixture type urethane ester-based adhesive (illustration omitted), for example. When an electrolytic copper foil is used, an electrolytic copper foil of not more than 7 μm is preferably used in order to make thin the thinconductive wire241as much as possible. When a copper film formed by a spattering method or a vacuum vapor deposition method is used, theconductive metal layer245is disposed by depositing a film on the firstdark color layer246through an adhesive primer (illustration omitted). When a copper film formed by a spattering method or a vacuum vapor deposition method is used as theconductive metal layer245, an electrolytic plated layer may be deposited on the copper film, so as to form theconductive metal layer245including the copper film formed by a spattering method or a vacuum vapor deposition method, and the electrolytic plated layer. As a film deposition method for a copper film, a spattering method, a vacuum vapor deposition method, an ion plating method, a PVD method other than these methods or a combination method thereof may be employed. In addition, as described above, a copper film may be formed by an electrolytic plating method. Moreover, it is possible to employ a method in which an electrolytic plating method is combined to the above described spattering method, the vacuum vapor deposition method, the ion plating method and so on.Then, as shown inFIG. 52, the resistlayer248is disposed on theconductive metal layer245. The resistlayer248is a resin layer having a photosensitivity to light of a predetermined wavelength range, such as ultraviolet light. The resin layer may be formed by adhering a resin film, or may be formed by applying a flowable resin. A concrete photosensitive property of the resistlayer248is not specifically limited. For example, a photo-curing type photosensitive material or a photo-dissolving photosensitive material may be used as the resistlayer248.Thereafter, as shown inFIG. 53, the resistlayer248is patterned to form the resistpattern249. Various known methods may be used as the method of patterning the resistlayer248. In this example, a resin layer having a photosensitivity to light of a predetermined wavelength range, such as ultraviolet light, is used as the resistlayer248, and a known photolithographic technique is used for patterning the resistlayer248. Firstly, a mask which opens a part to be patterned or a mask which shields a part to be patterned is placed on the resistlayer248, and the resistlayer248is irradiated with ultraviolet light through the mask. Thereafter, the part shielded by the mask from the ultraviolet light or the part irradiated with the ultraviolet light is removed by means of developing or the like. Thus, the patterned resistpattern249can be formed. A laser patterning method without mask can be used.Then, as shown inFIG. 54, theconductive metal layer245and the firstdark color layer246are etched with the resistpattern249serving as a mask. Due to this etching process, theconductive metal layer245and the firstdark color layer246are patterned substantially similar to the resistpattern249. The etching method is not particularly limited, and a known method may be employed. The known method may be a wet etching method using etchant, a plasma etching method and so on. Thereafter, as shown inFIG. 55, the resistpattern249is removed.Finally, the seconddark color layer247is formed on thesurface241bof theconductive metal layer245on the side opposed to thesubstrate230and the side surfaces241c,241d. The seconddark color layer247is formed by, e.g., subjecting a part of a material constituting theconductive metal layer245to a darkening treatment (blackening treatment). Namely, in this case, the seconddark color layer247made of metallic oxide or metallic sulfide can be formed from the part constituting theconductive metal layer245. Alternatively, the seconddark color layer247as a coating film made of a dark color material or a plated layer made of nickel or chrome may be disposed on the surface of theconductive metal layer245. In addition, the surface of theconductive metal layer245may be roughened, and the seconddark color layer247may be disposed thereon.In this example, the seconddark color layer247is formed on thesurface241bof theconductive metal layer245on the side opposed to thesubstrate230and the side surfaces241c,241d. However, not limited thereto, the seconddark color layer247may be formed only on thesurface241bof theconductive metal layer245on the side opposed to thesubstrate230, or only on the side surfaces241c,241dof theconductive metal layer245.When the seconddark color layer247is formed only on thesurface241bof theconductive metal layer245on the side opposed to thesubstrate230, after the step shown inFIG. 51, for example, the seconddark color layer247and the resistlayer248are disposed in this order on theconductive metal layer245, and the resistpattern249is formed by patterning the resistlayer248. Thereafter, the seconddark color layer247, theconductive metal layer245and the firstdark color layer246are etched with the resistpattern249serving as a mask.Alternatively, when the seconddark color layer247is formed only on the side surfaces241c,241dof theconductive metal layer245, after the step shown inFIG. 54, for example, the seconddark color layer247is formed without removing the resistpattern249. After that, the resistpattern249is removed.When the firstdark color layer246is not necessary, the step of disposing the firstdark color layer246on thesubstrate230, which is shown inFIG. 50, is omitted.Then, after the aboveconductive pattern sheet220is manufactured, thecurved glass plate211, thejoint layer213, theconductive pattern sheet220, thejoint layer214and thecurved glass plate212are superposed in this order and heated/pressurized, whereby theheating plate210is manufactured. Theheating plate210includes the pair ofcurved glass plates211,212, theconductive pattern sheet220disposed between the pair ofcurved glass plates211,212, thejoint layer213disposed between theglass plate211and theconductive pattern sheet220to join theglass plate211and theconductive pattern sheet220, and thejoint layer214disposed between theglass plate212and theconductive pattern sheet220to join theglass plate212and theconductive pattern sheet220. Theconductive pattern sheet220includes thesubstrate230and theconductive pattern240formed on thesubstrate230. A desired pattern is easily given precisely to theconductive pattern240by the aforementioned patterning method. Since the plurality of thinconductive wires241forming a pattern in theconductive pattern240are disposed between theglass plates211,212, positions of the thinconductive wires241are fixed. Thus, a desired pattern of the thinconductive wires241can be easily given precisely to theheating plate210.According to theheating plate210in the third embodiment, theconductive pattern240includes the plurality of thinconductive wires241that are formed of a patterned copper film and arranged in the one direction. Each thinconductive wire241extends in the other direction not in parallel the one direction, apart from another thinconductive wire241adjacent in the one direction. To be more specific, theconductive pattern240includes the thinconductive wires241that are arrange in a line and space pattern. The line width of the thinconductive wire241is formed to be not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm. In addition, the pitch between the adjacent thinconductive wires241is formed to be not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm. Thus, since the thinconductive wire241is sufficiently thin, an excellent see-through property can be obtained. In addition, a volume resistivity of the thinconductive wire241made of copper is low. Thus, although the line width is thin, suitable heat generation can be obtained when the thinconductive wire241is powered. In this embodiment, theconductive pattern240is formed by patterning (through a step including an etching process) a copper film. Thus, as described above, this embodiment is advantageous in that a desired pattern of the thinconductive wires241can be easily given precisely to theheating plate210.The aforementioned third embodiment may be variously modified.For example, theconductive pattern240of theconductive pattern sheet220may be provided, not on the surface of thesubstrate230on the side of thejoint layer211, but on the surface on the side of thejoint layer212. Alternatively, theconductive pattern240may be provided both on the surfaces of thesubstrate230on the side of thejoint layer211and on the side of thejoint layer212.Theheating plate210may be used in a rear window, a side window and a sun roof of theautomobile1. In addition, theheating plate210may be used in a window of a vehicle other than an automobile, such as a railway, an aircraft, a vessel, a space vessel and so on.Further, in addition to a vehicle, theheating plate210may be used in a part by which an inside and an outside is partitioned, such as a window of a building, a store and a house.Although some modification examples of the above third embodiment are described, the modification examples can be naturally combined with one another for application.Examples Related to Third EmbodimentAlthough the third embodiment is described in more detail herebelow by using examples, the third embodiment is not limited to these examples. In addition, a comparative example is also described.Example 1Theheating plate210in Example 1 was manufactured as follows. As thesubstrate230, there was firstly prepared a PET (polyethylene terephthalate) film (manufactured by TOYOBO Co., Ltd A4300) having a thickness of 100 μm, a width of 98 cm and a length of 100 m. A two-pack mixture type urethane ester-based adhesive was applied to thesubstrate230by a gravure coater, such that a thickness of the cured adhesive became 7 μm. Then, an electrolytic copper foil having a thickness of 10 μm, a width of 97 cm and a length of 80 m was laminated as theconductive metal layer245on thesubstrate230through an adhesive. The electrolytic copper foil and thesubstrate230were maintained for 4 days in an environment of 50° C., so that the electrolytic copper foil was secured on thesubstrate230.Thereafter, the resistlayer248was laminated on the electrolytic copper foil (conductive metal layer245), and was exposed in a line and space pattern of 1.5 mm in pitch and 4 μm in line width. Then, an unnecessary resist was cleaned (removed) to form the resistpattern249. The electrolytic copper foil was etched with the resistpattern249serving as a mask. Then, after cleaning, there was obtained theconductive pattern sheet220with theconductive pattern240including the thinconductive wires241that were arranged in the line and space pattern of 1.5 mm in pitch and 4 μm in line width.Then, the thus obtainedconductive pattern sheet220was cut to have an upper base of 125 cm, a lower base of 155 cm and a height of 96 cm. Then, theconductive pattern sheet220was disposed between theglass plates211,212having a shape, when viewed in a normal direction, which has an upper base of 120 cm, a lower base of 150 cm and height of 95 cm, through thejoint layers213,214formed of PBV adhesive sheets having the same size as that of theglass plates211,212. Then, the laminate of these members was heated/pressurized (vacuum laminated). Then, the joint layer and theconductive pattern sheet220projecting from between theglass plates211,212were trimmed so as to obtain theheating plate210according to Example 1.Upon inspection of theheating plate210according to Example 1 with eyes, theheating plate210was found to have an excellent see-through property. In addition, light beam stripes were not conspicuous. Light beam stripes are visible stripes of light. When a heating wire (thin conductive wire) in a defroster apparatus is thick, light beam strips tend to be large and thus can be conspicuous. Since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 0.7Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate210was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.Example 2Theheating plate210in Example 2 was manufactured as follows. As thesubstrate230, there was firstly prepared a PET (polyethylene terephthalate) film (manufactured by TOYOBO Co., Ltd A4300) having a thickness of 100 μm, a width of 98 cm and a length of 100 m. Copper was spattered to thesubstrate330though an adhesive primer such that the copper had a thickness of 500 nm. Further, copper was laminated by plating on the spattered copper, so as to obtain a conductive metal layer (copper film)345formed of the spattered copper film and the plated copper, with a total thickness of 2 μm.Thereafter, the resistlayer248was laminated on theconductive metal layer245, and was exposed in a line and space pattern of 0.3 mm in pitch and 2 μm in line width. Then, an unnecessary resist was cleaned (removed) to form the resistpattern249. The copper film was etched with the resistpattern249serving as a mask. Then, after cleaning, there was obtained theconductive pattern sheet220with theconductive pattern240including the thinconductive wires241that were arranged in the line and space pattern of 0.3 mm in pitch and 2 μm in line width.Then, the thus obtainedconductive pattern sheet220was cut to have an upper base of 125 cm, a lower base of 155 cm and a height of 96 cm. Then, theconductive pattern sheet220was disposed between theglass plates211,212having a shape, when viewed in a normal direction, which has an upper base of 120 cm, a lower base of 150 cm and height of 95 cm, through thejoint layers213,214formed of PBV adhesive sheets having the same size as that of theglass plates211,212. Then, the laminate of these members was heated/pressurized (vacuum laminated). Then, the joint layer and theconductive pattern sheet220projecting from between theglass plates211,212were trimmed so as to obtain theheating plate210according to Example 2.Upon inspection of theheating plate210according to Example 2 with eyes, theheating plate210was found to have an excellent see-through property. In addition, light beam stripes were not conspicuous. Since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 1.3Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate210was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.Example 3In the manufacture of theheating plate210in Example 3, when theconductive pattern sheet220was manufactured, a copper foil having a thickness of 6 μm was used. The resistlayer248on the copper foil (conductive metal layer245) was exposed in a line and space pattern of 1 mm in pitch and 6 μm in line width. Other than that, by using the same materials and the same steps as those of Example 1, theheating plate210was obtained. Theconductive pattern sheet220in theheating plate210was provided with theconductive pattern240including the thinconductive wires241that were arranged in the line and space pattern of 1 mm in pitch and 6 μm in line width. In theheating plate210in Example 3, since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 0.5Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate210was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.Example 4In the manufacture of theheating plate210in Example 4, when theconductive pattern sheet220was manufactured, a copper foil having a thickness of 10 μm was used. The resistlayer248on the copper foil (conductive metal layer245) was exposed in a line and space pattern of 1.7 mm in pitch and 8 μm in line width. Other than that, by using the same materials and the same steps as those of Example 1, theheating plate210was obtained. Theconductive pattern sheet220in theheating plate210was provided with theconductive pattern240including the thinconductive wires241that were arranged in the line and space pattern of 1.7 mm in pitch and 8 μm in line width. In theheating plate210in Example 4, since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 0.4Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate210was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.Example 5In the manufacture of theheating plate210in Example 5, when theconductive pattern sheet220was manufactured, copper was spattered to have a thickness of 1000 nm, and the conductive metal layer245(copper film) was laminated on thesubstrate230without plating copper. The resistlayer248on theconductive metal layer245was exposed in a line and space pattern of 0.3 mm in pitch and 9 μm in line width. Other than that, by using the same materials and the same steps as those of Example 2, theheating plate210was obtained. Theconductive pattern sheet220in theheating plate210was provided with theconductive pattern240including the thinconductive wires241that were arranged in the line and space pattern of 0.3 mm in pitch and 9 μm in line width. In theheating plate210in Example 5, since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 0.6Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate210was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.Example 6In the manufacture of the heating plate in Example 6, a copper foil having a thickness of 6 μm was used similarly to Example 3. The resistlayer248on the copper foil was exposed in a line and space pattern of 0.4 mm in pitch and 1 μm in line width. Other than that, by using the same materials and the same steps as those of Example 3, there was obtained a heating plate with conductive pattern sheet including the conductive pattern having the thin conductive wires that were arranged in the line and space pattern of 0.4 mm in pitch and 1 μm in line width. In the heating plate in Example 6, disconnection occurred in a lot of locations, so that suitable heat generation was not obtained when the heating plate was powered. However, unless disconnection occurred, it is considered that an excellent see-through property can be obtained as well as suitable heat generation can be obtained.Example 7In the manufacture of the heating plate in Example 7, a conductive metal layer, which included a spattered copper film and a plated copper, with a total thickness of 2 μm, was laminated on the substrate similarly to Example 2. The resistlayer248on the conductive metal layer was exposed in a line and space pattern of 1 mm in pitch and 15 μm in line width. Other than that, by the same steps as those of Example 2, there was obtained a heating plate with a conductive pattern including thin conductive wires that were arranged in the line and space pattern of 1 mm in pitch and 15 μm in line width. In the heating plate in Example 7, since copper wires were visible, an excellent see-through property could not be obtained. However, there could be obtained a see-through property which did not hinder driving of an automobile, for example.Comparative ExampleIn the manufacture of a heating plate in Comparative Example, a copper foil having a thickness of 10 μm was used similarly to Example 4. A resist layer on the copper foil was exposed in a line and space pattern of 3 mm in pitch and 8 μm in line width. Other than that, by the same steps as those of Example 4, there was obtained a heating plate with a conductive pattern including thin conductive wires that were arranged in the line and space pattern of 3 mm in pitch and 8 μm in line width. The heating plate in the Comparative Example had an excellent transparency. On the other hand, after being stored in a refrigerator, the heating plate in the Comparative Example was taken out and powered. In this case, increase of temperature at an intermediate between copper wires was slow, and it took more time than that of examples to defog the heating plate.Fourth EmbodimentFIG. 1andFIGS. 57 to 70are views for explaining a fourth embodiment according to the present invention. In the fourth embodiment described below, a component corresponding to that of the first and second embodiments is shown by a symbol in300swith the same last two digits, and overlapped description is omitted.FIG. 57is a view of a heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 58is a cross-sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 57.FIG. 59is a view showing conditions of respective member constituting the heating plate ofFIG. 58before the respective members are laminated. The heating plate in this embodiment is sometimes referred to as “laminated glass”.FIG. 57shows aheating plate310when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 58is a cross-sectional view corresponding to a LVIII-LVIII line of theheating plate310ofFIG. 57. Theheating plate310includes a pair ofcurved glass plates311,312, a conductive pattern sheet (pattern sheet)320disposed between the pair ofcurved glass plates311,312, ajoint layer313that joins theglass plate311and theconductive pattern sheet320, and ajoint layer314that joins theglass plate312and theconductive pattern sheet320.Theconductive pattern sheet320includes asubstrate330, a conductive pattern (conductive pattern member)340formed on thesubstrate330, awiring part15for powering theconductive pattern340, and aconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern340and thewiring part15.In the example shown inFIGS. 57 and 58, theconductive pattern340is powered by apower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so that theconductive pattern340generates heat by means of resistance heat. The heat generated by theconductive pattern340is transmitted to theglass plates311,312through thejoint layers313,314, so that theglass plates311,312are warmed up. Thus, due drops on theglass plates311,312can be removed so that theglass plates311,312can be defogged. When there is snow or ice on theglass plates311,312, the snow or ice can be unfrozen. Thus, an excellent field of view of a passenger can be ensured.In order to manufacture theheating plate310, as shown inFIG. 59, thecurved glass plate311, thejoint layer313, theconductive pattern sheet320, thejoint layer314and thecurved glass plate312are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized, so that thecurved glass plate311, theconductive pattern sheet320and thecurved glass plates312are joined through thejoint layers313,314.Particularly when used as a front window, theglass plate311,312preferably has a high visible light transmittance in order not to hinder a field of view of a passenger. A material of such aglass plate311,312may be soda lime glass, blue plate glass and so on, for example. Theglass plate311,312preferably has a transmittance of 90% or more in a visible light area. The visible light transmittance of theglass plate311,312is specified as follows. Transmittance of light with measurement wavelength range of from 380 nm to 780 nm is measured by using a spectrophotometer (manufactured by Shimadzu Corporation, “UV-3100PC”, compliant with HS K 0115). The visible light transmittance is an average value of the transmittances at the respective wavelengths. The visible light transmittance may be lowered by partially or totally coloring theglass plate311,312, for example. In this case, direct sunlight can be shielded and an inside of the automobile is less visible from outside.In addition, theglass plate311,312preferably has a thickness of not less than 1 mm and not more than 5 mm. With such a thickness, theglass plate311,312excellent in strength and optical properties can be obtained.Theglass plates311,312and theconductive pattern sheet320are joined to each other through thejoint layers313,314, respectively. As such ajoint layer313,314, a layer made of a material having various adhesion properties or gluing (pressure sensitive adhesive) properties. In addition, thejoint layer313,314preferably has a high visible light transmittance. A typical joint layer may be a layer made of polyvinyl butyral (PVB), for example. Thejoint layer313,314preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.15 mm and not more than 0.7 mm.Not limited to the illustrated example, theheating plate310may be provided with another function layer for exerting a specific function. In addition, one function layer may exert two or more functions. Alternatively, for example, a function may be given to at least one of theglass plate311,312of theheating plate310, thejoint layer313,314thereof, and thesubstrate330of theconductive pattern sheet320thereof, which is described later. The function that can be given toheating plate310may be an antireflection (AR) function, a hard coat (HC) function having an abrasion resistance, an infrared ray shield (reflection) function, an ultraviolet ray shield (reflection) function, a polarizing function, an antifouling function and so on, for example.Next, theconductive pattern sheet320is described. Theconductive pattern sheet320includes thesubstrate330, theconductive pattern340disposed on thesubstrate330, thewiring part15for powering theconductive pattern240, and theconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern340and thewiring part15. Theconductive pattern sheet320may have a planar dimension substantially the same as that of theglass plate311,312so as to be placed all over theheating plate310. Alternatively, theconductive pattern sheet320may be placed over only a part of theheating plate310, such as a part in front of a driver's seat.Thesubstrate330functions as a substrate that supports theconductive pattern340. Thesubstrate330is an electrically insulating substrate that transmits light of a wavelength (380 nm to 780 nm) of a visible light wavelength band, which is generally recognized as transparent. Thesubstrate330contains a thermoplastic resin.A thermoplastic resin contained as a main component in thesubstrate330may be any thermoplastic resin as long as it transmits visible light. The thermoplastic resin may be an acryl resin made of, e.g., polymethyl methacrylate, a polyolefin resin made of e.g., polypropylene, a polyester resin made of, e.g., polyethylene terephthalate or polyethylene naphthalate, a cellulose-based resin made of, e.g., triacetyl cellulose (cellulose triacetate), polyvinyl chloride, polystyrene, a polycarbonate resin, an AS resin and so on, for example. In particular, an acryl resin and polyethylene terephthalate are preferred because of their excellent optical properties and moldability.In addition, in consideration of support property during manufacture and light transmission of theconductive pattern340, thesubstrate330preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.02 mm and not more than 0.20 mm.Theconductive pattern340is described with reference toFIGS. 60 to 62.FIG. 60is a plan view of theconductive pattern sheet320when viewed in a normal direction of a sheet plane thereof, showing an example of an arrangement pattern of theconductive pattern340.Theconductive pattern340is powered by thepower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so as to generate heat by means of resistance heat. The heat is transmitted to theglass plate311,312through thejoint layers313,314, so that theglass plates311,312are warmed up.Theconductive pattern340shown inFIG. 60is a member including thinconductive wires341that are arranged in a mesh pattern defining a number ofopenings343. Theconductive pattern340is a member that is also referred to as conductive mesh. Theconductive pattern340includes a plurality of connection elements344that extend between two branch points342to define theopenings343. Namely, the thinconductive wires341are an aggregation of a number of the connection elements344each forming the branch points342at both ends thereof. Particularly in the illustrated example, the three connection elements344are connected at equal angles at each branch point342, so that there are defined a number of theopenings343of the same honeycomb shape (hexagonal shape) each of which is surrounded by the six connection elements344.In the illustrated example, theconductive pattern340includes the thinconductive wires341that are arranged in a mesh pattern in which theopenings343of the same honeycomb shape are regularly defined. However, not limited to the mesh pattern, theconductive pattern340may have the thinconductive wires341that are arranged in various mesh patterns such as in a mesh pattern (grid pattern) in which theopenings343of the same shape such as a triangular shape or a rectangular shape are regularly defined, a mesh pattern in which theopenings343of different shapes are regularly defined, a mesh pattern in which theopenings343of different shapes are irregularly defined, such as a Voronoi mesh pattern, and so on. In the case of a honeycomb pattern, current can be smoothly branched at the branch point342into two directions to change traveling directions. Thus, since current easily flows throughout theconductive pattern340, uniform heat generation occurs in theconductive pattern340as a whole, to thereby improve a see-through property.In this embodiment, a copper film is used as a material for constituting such aconductive pattern240. A copper film means an electrolytic copper foil, a rolled copper foil, a copper film formed (deposited) by a spattering method, a vacuum deposition method and so on. Although the details are described later, theconductive pattern340is formed by patterning a copper film by an etching process.FIG. 61is a sectional view corresponding to an A-A line ofFIG. 60, showing an example of a sectional shape of the thin conductive wire. The thin conductive wires341(connection elements344) constituting theconductive pattern340are formed on thesubstrate330. In the illustrated example, the thinconductive wire341has asurface341aon the side of thesubstrate330, asurface341bon the side opposed to thesubstrate330, andside surfaces341c,341d. The thinconductive wire341has substantially a rectangular section in general. In this embodiment, a line width W (herebelow simply as “width”) of the thinconductive wire341, i.e., the width W along the sheet plane of thesubstrate330is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm, preferably not less than 2 μm and not more than 15 μm. Thus, theconductive pattern340is seen transparent in general, and has an excellent see-through property. In addition, a height (thickness) H of the thinconductive wire341, i.e., the height (thickness) H along the normal direction to the sheet plane of thesubstrate330is preferably not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm, and more preferably not less than 1 μm and not more than 10 μm. Since the thinconductive wire341having such a height dimension, in addition to the line width W, is sufficiently thin, theconductive pattern340can be effectively made invisible.InFIG. 61, the symbol P represents a pitch between the adjacent openings343(distance between centers of the adjacent openings343) in the honeycomb pattern of theconductive pattern340when it has a honeycomb pattern. The pitch P is preferably not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 7.0 mm, and more preferably not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm. When theconductive pattern340has a grid pattern, a pitch between adjacent rectangular openings in the grid pattern is preferably not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 7.0 mm, and more preferably not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm.In addition, the thinconductive wire341includes a firstdark color layer346disposed on thesubstrate330, aconductive metal layer345disposed on the firstdark color layer346, and a seconddark color layer347disposed on theconductive metal layer345. In other words, the surface of theconductive metal layer345on the side of thesubstrate330is covered with the firstdark color layer346, and the surface of theconductive metal layer345on the side opposed to thesubstrate330and both side surfaces thereof are covered with the seconddark color layer347.Theconductive metal layer345made of a metal material has relatively a high reflectance. When light is reflected on theconductive metal layer345forming theconductive metal wires341of theconductive pattern340, the reflected light may be visible, which hinders a field of view of a passenger. In addition, when theconductive metal layer345is visible from outside, design is sometimes impaired. Thus, the dark color layers346,347are disposed at least a part of the surface of theconductive metal layer345. The dark color layers346,347are layer having a visible light reflectance that is lower than that of theconductive metal layer345, and are black-colored dark color layers, for example. Due to the dark color layers346,347, theconductive metal layer345becomes less visible, whereby an excellent field of view of a passenger can be ensured. In addition, impairment of design when seen from outside can be prevented. However, such dark color layers346,347may be omitted. In this case, the width W of the thinconductive wire341is a width of the singleconductive metal layer345.FIG. 62is a sectional view corresponding to the A-A line ofFIG. 60, showing another sectional shape of the thin conductive wire. In the illustrated example, the thin conductive wire341(connection element344) includes asurface341aon the side of thesubstrate330, asurface341bon the side opposed to thesubstrate330, andside surfaces341c,341d. Thesurface341aon the side of thesubstrate330and thesurface341bon the side opposed to thesubstrate330are in parallel. Theside surface341cforms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to theside surface341das a certain point in theside surface341cmoves away from thesubstrate330along the normal direction of the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet320. Theside surface341dalso forms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to theside surface341cas a certain point in theside surface341dmoves away from thesubstrate330along the normal direction of the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet320. The thinconductive wire341has substantially a trapezoidal section in general. Namely, the width of the thinconductive wire341changes to narrow as a certain point in the thinconductive wire341moves away from thesubstrate330along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet320. In addition, similarly to the example shown inFIG. 61, the surface of theconductive metal layer345on the side of thesubstrate330is covered with the firstdark color layer346, and the surface of theconductive metal layer345on the side opposed to thesubstrate330and both side surfaces thereof are covered with the seconddark color layer347.FIG. 62shows that the thinconductive wire341has substantially a trapezoidal section in general, and that the width of the thinconductive wire341changes to narrow as a certain point in the thinconductive wire341moves away from thesubstrate330along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet320. However, not limited thereto, the side surfaces341c,341dmay be formed of curved lines, or may be formed in a tier-like shape. In addition, the width of the thinconductive wire341may be partially wider as a certain point in the thinconductive wire341moves away from thesubstrate330along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet320. Namely, when the section of the thinconductive wire341is seen generally and comprehensively, it is sufficient that the width of theconductive wire341changes to narrow as a certain point in the thinconductive wire341moves away from thesubstrate330along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet320.In the example shown inFIG. 62, since the width of the thinconductive wire341changes to narrow as a certain point in the thinconductive wire341moves away from thesubstrate330along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet320, when theglass plates311,312, thejoint layers313,314and theconductive pattern sheet320are laminated, theconductive pattern340can be reliably embedded in thejoint layer313, and bubbles in an interface between theconductive pattern340and thejoint layer313can be restrained from remaining therein.Next, an example of a manufacturing method of theheating plate310is described with reference toFIGS. 63 to 70.FIGS. 63 to 70are sectional views showing the example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate310in sequence, particularly views for explaining manufacture of theconductive pattern sheet320in detail. After theconductive pattern sheet320is manufactured, theconductive pattern sheet320is sandwiched between theglass plates311,312so that theheating plate310is manufactured.In order to manufacture theconductive pattern sheet320, as shown inFIG. 63, thesubstrate330is firstly prepared. Thesubstrate330is an electrically insulating substrate that transmits light of a wavelength (380 nm to 780 nm) of a visible light wavelength band, which is generally recognized as transparent. Thesubstrate330contains a thermoplastic resin.Then, as shown inFIG. 64, the firstdark color346is disposed on thesubstrate330. For example, the first dark color layer363can be disposed on thesubstrate330by a plating method including electrolytic plating and electroless plating, a spattering method, a vacuum deposition method, an ion plating method, a PVD method and a CVD method other than these methods, or a combination method of the two or more methods. Various known materials may be used as material of the firstdark color layer346. For example, the material may be copper nitride, copper oxide, nickel nitride and so on.Then, as shown inFIG. 65, theconductive metal layer345is disposed on the firstdark color layer346. Theconductive metal layer345is a layer formed of a copper film. When an electrolytic copper foil or a rolled copper foil is used to form theconductive metal layer345, theconductive metal layer345is disposed on the firstdark color layer346through a two-pack mixture type urethane ester-based adhesive (illustration omitted), for example. When an electrolytic copper foil is used, an electrolytic copper foil of not more than 7 μm is preferably used in order to make thin the thinconductive wire341as much as possible. When a copper film formed by a spattering method or a vacuum vapor deposition method is used for forming theconductive metal layer345, theconductive metal layer345is disposed by depositing a film on the firstdark color layer346through an adhesive primer (illustration omitted). When a copper film formed by a spattering method or a vacuum vapor deposition method is used as theconductive metal layer345, an electrolytic plated layer may be deposited on the copper film, so as to form theconductive metal layer345including the copper film formed by a spattering method or a vacuum vapor deposition method, and the electrolytic plated layer. As a film deposition method for a copper film, a spattering method, a vacuum vapor deposition method, an ion plating method, a PVD method other than these methods or a combination method thereof may be employed. In addition, as described above, a copper film may be formed by an electrolytic plating method. Moreover, it is possible to employ a method in which an electrolytic plating method is combined to the above described spattering method, the vacuum vapor deposition method, the ion plating method and so on.Then, as shown inFIG. 66, the resistlayer348is disposed on theconductive metal layer345. The resistlayer348is a resin layer having a photosensitivity to light of a predetermined wavelength range, such as ultraviolet light. The resin layer may be formed by adhering a resin film, or may be formed by applying a flowable resin. A concrete photosensitive property of the resistlayer348is not specifically limited. For example, a photo-curing type photosensitive material or a photo-dissolving photosensitive material may be used as the resistlayer348.Thereafter, as shown inFIG. 67, the resistlayer348is patterned to form the resistpattern349. Various known methods may be used as the method of patterning the resistpattern349. In this example, a resin layer having a photosensitivity to light of a predetermined wavelength range, such as ultraviolet light, is used as the resistlayer348, and a known photolithographic technique is used for patterning the resistlayer348. Firstly, a mask which opens a part to be patterned or a mask which shields a part to be patterned is placed on the resistlayer348, and the resistlayer348is irradiated with ultraviolet light through the mask. Thereafter, the part shielded by the mask from the ultraviolet light or the part irradiated with the ultraviolet light is removed by means of developing or the like. Thus, the patterned resistpattern349can be formed. A laser patterning method without mask can be used.Then, as shown inFIG. 68, theconductive metal layer345and the firstdark color layer346are etched with the resistpattern349serving as a mask. Due to this etching process, theconductive metal layer345and the firstdark color layer346are patterned substantially similar to the resistpattern349. The etching method is not particularly limited, and a known method may be employed. The known method may be a wet etching method using etchant, a plasma etching method and so on. Thereafter, as shown inFIG. 69, the resistpattern349is removed.Finally, the seconddark color layer347is formed on thesurface341bof theconductive metal layer345on the side opposed to thesubstrate330and the side surfaces341c,341d. The seconddark color layer347is formed by, e.g., subjecting a part of a material constituting theconductive metal layer345to a darkening treatment (blackening treatment). Namely, in this case, the seconddark color layer347made of metallic oxide or metallic sulfide can be formed from the part constituting theconductive metal layer345. Alternatively, the seconddark color layer347as a coating film made of a dark color material or a plated layer made of nickel or chrome may be disposed on the surface of theconductive metal layer345. In addition, the surface of theconductive metal layer345may be roughened, and the seconddark color layer347may be disposed thereon.In this example, the seconddark color layer347is formed on thesurface341bof theconductive metal layer345on the side opposed to thesubstrate330and the side surfaces341c,341d. However, not limited thereto, the seconddark color layer347may be formed only on thesurface341bof theconductive metal layer345on the side opposed to thesubstrate330, or only on the side surfaces341c,341dof theconductive metal layer345.When the seconddark color layer347is formed only on thesurface341bof theconductive metal layer345on the side opposed to thesubstrate330, after the step shown inFIG. 65, for example, the seconddark color layer347and the resistlayer348are disposed in this order on theconductive metal layer345, and the resistpattern349is formed by patterning the resistlayer348. Thereafter, the seconddark color layer347, theconductive metal layer345and the firstdark color layer346are etched with the resistpattern349serving as a mask.Alternatively, when the seconddark color layer347is formed only on the side surfaces341c,341dof theconductive metal layer345, after the step shown inFIG. 68, for example, the seconddark color layer347is formed without removing the resistpattern349. After that, the resistpattern349is removed.When the firstdark color layer346is not necessary, the step of disposing the firstdark color layer346on thesubstrate330, which is shown inFIG. 64, is omitted.Then, after the aboveconductive pattern sheet320is manufactured, thecurved glass plate311, thejoint layer313, theconductive pattern sheet320, thejoint layer314and thecurved glass plate312are superposed in this order and heated/pressurized, so that theheating plate310is manufactured. Theheating plate310includes the pair ofcurved glass plates311,312, theconductive pattern sheet320disposed between the pair ofcurved glass plates311,312, thejoint layer313disposed between theglass plate311and theconductive pattern sheet320to join theglass plate311and theconductive pattern sheet320, and thejoint layer314disposed between theglass plate312and theconductive pattern sheet320to join theglass plate312and theconductive pattern sheet320. Theconductive pattern sheet320includes thesubstrate330and theconductive pattern340formed on thesubstrate330. A desired pattern is easily given precisely to theconductive pattern340by the aforementioned patterning method. Thus, it is possible to manufacture theheating plate310having an excellent optical property.According to theheating plate310in the fourth embodiment, theconductive pattern340includes the thinconductive wires341formed of a patterned copper film and arranged in a mesh pattern. The line width of the thinconductive wire341is formed to be not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm. Thus, since the thinconductive wire341is sufficiently thin, an excellent see-through property can be obtained. In addition, a volume resistivity of the thinconductive wire341made of copper is low. Thus, although the line width is thin, suitable heat generation can be obtained when the thinconductive wire341is powered.The aforementioned fourth embodiment may be variously modified.For example, theconductive pattern340of theconductive pattern sheet320may be provided, not on the surface of thesubstrate330on the side of theglass plate311, but on the surface on the side of theglass plate312. Alternatively, theconductive pattern340may be provided both on the surfaces of thesubstrate330on the side of theglass plate311and on the side of theglass plate312.Theheating plate310may be used in a rear window, a side window and a sun roof of theautomobile1. In addition, theheating plate310may be used in a window of a vehicle other than an automobile, such as a railway, an aircraft, a vessel, a space vessel and so on.Further, in addition to a vehicle, theheating plate310may be used in a part by which an inside and an outside is partitioned, such as a window of a building, a store and a house.Although some modification examples of the above fourth embodiment are described, the modification examples can be naturally combined with one another for application.Examples Related to Fourth EmbodimentAlthough the fourth embodiment is described in more detail herebelow by using examples, the fourth embodiment is not limited to these examples.Example 1Theheating plate310in Expel 1 was manufactured as follows. As thesubstrate330, there was firstly prepared a PET (polyethylene terephthalate) film (manufactured by TOYOBO Co., Ltd A4300) having a thickness of 100 μm, a width of 98 cm and a length of 100 m. A two-pack mixture type urethane ester-based adhesive was applied to thesubstrate330by a gravure coater, such that a thickness of the cured adhesive became 7 μm. Then, an electrolytic copper foil having a thickness of 10 μm, a width of 97 cm and a length of 80 m was laminated as theconductive metal layer345on thesubstrate330through an adhesive. The electrolytic copper foil and thesubstrate330were maintained for 4 days in an environment of 50° C., so that the electrolytic copper foil was secured on thesubstrate330.Thereafter, the resistlayer348was laminated on the electrolytic copper foil (conductive metal layer345), and was exposed in a grid pattern of 1.5 mm in pitch and 4 μm in line width. Then, an unnecessary resist was cleaned (removed) to form the resistpattern349. The electrolytic copper foil was etched with the resistpattern349serving as a mask. Then, after cleaning, there was obtained theconductive pattern sheet320with theconductive pattern340including the thinconductive wires341that were arranged in the grid pattern. In theconductive pattern sheet320, a pitch of openings in the grid pattern was 1.5 mm, and a line width of the thinconductive wire341was 4 μm.Then, the thus obtainedconductive pattern sheet320was cut to have an upper base of 125 cm, a lower base of 155 cm and a height of 96 cm. Then, theconductive pattern sheet320was disposed between theglass plates311,312having a shape, when viewed in a normal direction, which has an upper base of 120 cm, a lower base of 150 cm and height of 95 cm, through thejoint layers313,314formed of PBV adhesive sheets having the same size as that of theglass plates311,312. Then, the laminate of these members was heated/pressurized (vacuum laminated). Then, the joint layer and theconductive pattern sheet320projecting from between theglass plates311,312were trimmed so as to obtain theheating plate310according to Example 1.Upon inspection of theheating plate310according to Example 1 with eyes, theheating plate310was found to have an excellent see-through property. In addition, light beam stripes were not conspicuous. Light beam stripes are visible stripes of light. When a heating wire (thin conductive wire) in a defroster apparatus is thick, light beam strips tend to be large and thus can be conspicuous. Since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 0.7Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate310was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.Example 2Theheating plate310in Example 2 was manufactured as follows. As thesubstrate330, there was firstly prepared a PET (polyethylene terephthalate) film (manufactured by TOYOBO Co., Ltd A4300) having a thickness of 100 μm, a width of 98 cm and a length of 100 m. Copper was spattered to thesubstrate330though an adhesive primer such that the copper had a thickness of 500 nm. Further, copper was laminated by plating on the spattered copper, so as to obtain a conductive metal layer (copper film)345formed of the spattered copper film and the plated copper, with a total thickness of 2 μm.Thereafter, the resistlayer348was laminated on theconductive metal layer345, and was exposed in a grid pattern of 0.3 mm in pitch and 3 μm in line width. Then, an unnecessary resist was cleaned (removed) to form the resistpattern349. The copper film was etched with the resistpattern349serving as a mask. Then, after cleaning, there was obtained theconductive pattern sheet320with theconductive pattern340including the thinconductive wires341that were arranged in the grid pattern. In theconductive pattern sheet320, a pitch of openings in the grid pattern was 0.3 mm, and a line width of the thinconductive wire341was 3 μm.Then, the thus obtainedconductive pattern sheet320was cut to have an upper base of 125 cm, a lower base of 155 cm and a height of 96 cm. Then, theconductive pattern sheet320was disposed between theglass plates311,312having a shape, when viewed in a normal direction, which has an upper base of 120 cm, a lower base of 150 cm and height of 95 cm, through thejoint layers313,314formed of PBV adhesive sheets having the same size as that of theglass plates311,312. Then, the laminate of these members was heated/pressurized (vacuum laminated). Then, the joint layer and theconductive pattern sheet320projecting from between theglass plates311,312were trimmed so as to obtain theheating plate310according to Example 2.Upon inspection of theheating plate310according to Example 2 with eyes, theheating plate310was found to have an excellent see-through property. In addition, light beam stripes were not conspicuous. Since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 0.9Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate310was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.Example 3In the manufacture of theheating plate310in Example 3, when theconductive pattern sheet320was manufactured, a copper foil having a thickness of 6 μm was used. The resistlayer348on the copper foil (conductive metal layer345) was exposed in a grid pattern of 1 mm in pitch and 6 μm in line width. Other than that, by using the same materials and the same steps as those of Example 1, theheating plate310was obtained. In theconductive pattern sheet320of theheating plate310, a pitch of openings in the grid pattern was 1 mm, and a line width of the thinconductive wire341was 6 μm. In theheating plate310in Example 3, since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 0.5Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate310was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.Example 4In the manufacture of theheating plate310in Example 4, when theconductive pattern sheet320was manufactured, a copper foil having a thickness of 10 μm was used. The resistlayer348on the copper foil (conductive metal layer345) was exposed in a grid pattern of 1.7 mm in pitch and 8 μm in line width. Other than that, by using the same materials and the same steps as those of Example 1, theheating plate310was obtained. In theconductive pattern sheet320of theheating plate310, a pitch of openings in the grid pattern was 1.7 mm, and a line width of the thinconductive wire341was 8 μm. In theheating plate310in Example 4, since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 0.4Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate310was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.Example 5In the manufacture of theheating plate310in Example 5, when theconductive pattern sheet320was manufactured, copper was spattered to have a thickness of 1000 nm, and the conductive metal layer345(copper film) was laminated on thesubstrate330without plating copper. Theconductive metal layer345was exposed in a grid pattern of 0.3 mm in pitch and 9 μm in line width. Other than that, by using the same materials and the same steps as those of Example 2, theheating plate310was obtained. In theconductive pattern sheet320of theheating plate310, a pitch of openings in the grid pattern was 0.3 mm, and a line width of the thinconductive wire341was 9 μm. In theheating plate310in Example 5, since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 0.6Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate310was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.The below Table 1 shows a line width of the thinconductive wire341, a thickness of a copper film forming the thinconductive wire341, a pitch of openings in the grid pattern, a measured resistance, a voltage applied upon measurement and a heating value upon application of the voltage, of the respective Examples 1 to 5. In Examples 1 to 5, a suitable heat value of from 150 to 310 W could be obtained.TABLE 1LineAppliedHeatingWidthThicknessPitchResistanceVoltageValue[μm][μm][mm][Q][V][W]Ex. 14101.50.712170Ex. 2320.30.912150Ex. 36610.512240Ex. 48101.70.412310Ex. 5910.30.612190Fifth EmbodimentFIG. 1andFIGS. 71 to 86are views for explaining a fifth embodiment according to the present invention. In the fifth embodiment described below, a component corresponding to that of the first to fourth embodiments is shown by a symbol in 400s with the same last two digits, and overlapped description is omitted.FIG. 71is a view of a heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 72is a cross-sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 71.FIG. 73is a view showing conditions of respective member constituting the heating plate ofFIG. 72before the respective members are laminated. The heating plate in this embodiment is sometimes referred to as “laminated glass”.FIG. 71shows aheating plate410when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 72is a cross-sectional view corresponding to a LXXII-LXXII line of theheating plate410ofFIG. 71. In the example shown inFIG. 72, afirst glass plate411, a firstjoint layer413, a conductive pattern sheet (pattern sheet)420, a secondjoint layer414and thesecond glass plate412are laminated in this order to form theheating plate410. Theconductive pattern sheet420includes asubstrate430, and a conductive pattern (conductive pattern member)440disposed on thesubstrate430. Theconductive pattern440includes thinconductive wires441that are arranged in a pattern. As shown inFIG. 74, in this embodiment, the thinconductive wires441are arranged in a mesh pattern, which is described in more detail below.In addition, as described inFIG. 71, theheating plate410includes awiring part15for powering theconductive pattern440, and aconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern440and thewiring part15. In the illustrated example, theconductive pattern440is powered by apower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so that theconductive pattern440generates heat by means of resistance heat. The heat generated by theconductive pattern440is transmitted to theglass plates411,412through thejoint layers413,414, so that theglass plates411,412are warmed up. Thus, due drops on theglass plates411,412can be removed so that theglass plates411,412can be defogged. When there is snow or ice on theglass plates411,412, the snow or ice can be unfrozen. Thus, an excellent field of view of a passenger can be ensured.In order to manufacture theheating plate410, as shown inFIG. 73, thecurved glass plate411, the firstjoint layer413, theconductive pattern sheet420, the secondjoint layer414and thecurved glass plate412are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized, so that thecurved glass plate411, theconductive pattern sheet420and thecurved glass plates412are joined by thejoint layers413,414.The respective layers of theheating plate410are described below.Theglass plate411,412is firstly described. Particularly when used as a front window, theglass plate411,412preferably has a high visible light transmittance in order not to hinder a field of view of a passenger. A material of such aglass plate411,412may be soda lime glass, blue plate glass and so on, for example. Theglass plate411,412preferably has a transmittance of 90% or more in a visible light area. The visible light transmittance of theglass plate411,412is specified as follows. Transmittance of light with measurement wavelength range of from 380 nm to 780 nm is measured by using a spectrophotometer (manufactured by Shimadzu Corporation, “UV-3100PC”, compliant with JIS K 0115). The visible light transmittance is an average value of the transmittances at the respective wavelengths. The visible light transmittance may be lowered by partially or totally coloring theglass plate411,412, for example. In this case, direct sunlight can be shielded and an inside of the automobile is less visible from outside.In addition, theglass plate411,412preferably has a thickness of not less than 1 mm and not more than 5 mm. With such a thickness, theglass plate411,412excellent in strength and optical properties can be obtained.Next, thejoint layers413,414are described. The first joint layer r413is disposed between thefirst glass plate411and theconductive pattern sheet420to join thefirst glass plate411and theconductive pattern sheet420to each other. In more detail, in this example, as shown inFIGS. 72 and 73, the firstjoint layer413is disposed between thefirst glass plate411and theconductive pattern440of theconductive pattern sheet420to be directly in contact with thefirst glass plate411and the thinconductive wires441, so as to join theconductive pattern440to thefirst glass plate411through the thinconductive wires441with which the firstjoint layer413is in contact. Strictly speaking, the firstjoint layer413is directly in contact with thefirst glass plate411, the thinconductive wires441and asurface431aof thesubstrate430, so as to join theconductive pattern440to thefirst glass plate411through the thinconductive wires441and thesurface431awith which the firstjoint layer413is in contact.In addition, the secondjoint layer414is disposed between thesecond glass plate412and theconductive pattern sheet420to join thesecond glass plate412and theconductive sheet420to each other. In more detail, in this example, the secondjoint layer414is disposed between thesecond glass plate412and thesubstrate430of theconductive pattern sheet420to be directly in contact with thesecond glass plate412and thesubstrate430, so as to join thesubstrate430and thesecond glass plate412.As such ajoint layer413,414, a layer made of a material having various adhesion properties or gluing (pressure sensitive adhesive) properties can be employed. In addition, thejoint layer413,414preferably has a high visible light transmittance. A typical joint layer may be a layer made of polyvinyl butyral (PVB), for example. Thejoint layer413,414preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.15 mm and not more than 1 mm.Not limited to the illustrated example, theheating plate410may be provided with another function layer for exerting a specific function. In addition, one function layer may exert two or more functions. Alternatively, for example, a function may be given to at least one of theglass plate411,412of theheating plate410, thejoint layer413,414thereof, and thesubstrate430of theconductive pattern sheet420thereof, which is described later. The function that can be given toheating plate410may be an antireflection (AR) function, a hard coat (HC) function having an abrasion resistance, an infrared ray shield (reflection) function, an ultraviolet ray shield (reflection) function, a polarizing function, an antifouling function and so on, for example.Next, theconductive pattern sheet420is described. As shown inFIGS. 71 and 72, theconductive pattern sheet420in this embodiment includes a sheet-like substrate430having a pair ofopposed surfaces431a,431b, theconductive pattern440disposed on thesurface431aof the pair ofopposed surfaces431a,431bof thesubstrate430, thewiring part15for powering theconductive pattern440, and theconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern440and thewiring part15. Theconductive pattern sheet420may have a planar dimension substantially the same as that of theglass plate411,412so as to be placed all over theheating plate410. Alternatively, theconductive pattern sheet420may be placed over only a part of theheating plate410, such as a part in front of a driver's seat.Thesubstrate430functions as a substrate that supports theconductive pattern440. Thesubstrate430is an electrically insulating substrate that transmits light of a wavelength (380 nm to 780 nm) of a visible light wavelength band, which is generally recognized as transparent. Thesubstrate430contains a thermoplastic resin.A thermoplastic resin contained as a main component in thesubstrate430may be any thermoplastic resin as long as it transmits visible light. The thermoplastic resin may be an acryl resin made of, e.g., polymethyl methacrylate, a polyolefin resin made of e.g., polypropylene, a polyester resin made of, e.g., polyethylene terephthalate or polyethylene naphthalate, a cellulose-based resin made of, e.g., triacetyl cellulose (cellulose triacetate), polyvinyl chloride, polystyrene, a polycarbonate resin, an AS resin and so on, for example. In particular, an acryl resin and polyethylene terephthalate are preferred because of their excellent optical properties and moldability.In addition, in consideration of light transmittance, suitable support property of theconductive pattern440, thesubstrate430preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.02 mm and not more than 0.20 mm.FIG. 74is a plan view showing an example of an arrangement pattern of theconductive pattern440. Theconductive pattern440is powered by thepower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so as to generate heat by means of resistance heat. The heat is transmitted to theglass plates411,412through thejoint layers413,414, so that theglass plates411,412are warmed up.Theconductive pattern440shown inFIG. 74is a member including the thinconductive wires441that are arranged in a mesh pattern defining a number ofopenings443. Theconductive pattern440is a member that is also referred to as conductive mesh. Theconductive pattern440includes the plurality of connectionconductive wires441that extend between twobranch points442to define theopenings443. Namely, theconductive pattern440is an aggregation of a number of the thinconductive wires441each forming the branch points442at both ends thereof. Particularly in the illustrated example, the three thinconductive wires441are connected at equal angles at eachbranch point442, so that there are defined a number of theopenings443of the same honeycomb shape (hexagonal shape) each of which is surrounded by the sixconnection elements441.In the illustrated example, theconductive pattern440includes the thinconductive wires441that are arranged in a mesh pattern in which theopenings443of the same honeycomb shape are regularly defined. However, not limited to the mesh pattern, theconductive pattern440may have the thinconductive wires441that are arranged in various mesh patterns such as in a mesh pattern (grid pattern) in which theopenings443of the same shape such as a triangular shape or a rectangular shape are regularly defined, a mesh pattern in which theopenings443of different shapes are regularly defined, a mesh pattern in which theopenings443of different shapes are irregularly defined, such as a Voronoi mesh pattern, and so on. In addition, theconductive pattern440may have a line and space pattern formed by a plurality of the thinconductive wires441that are arranged in one direction.Theconductive pattern440may be made of one or more of gold, silver, copper, platinum, aluminum, chrome, molybdenum, nickel, titanium, palladium, indium, tungsten and an alloy thereof. Theconductive pattern440is formed of a metal film in which the thinconductive wires441are patterned by etching. Theconductive pattern440may include a thin wire, i.e., a connection wire connecting the adjacent thinconductive wires441.FIG. 75is a sectional view showing the A-A line ofFIG. 74, showing a sectional shape of the thinconductive wire441.FIG. 75shows the sectional shape of the thinconductive wire441in a direction perpendicular to an extension direction of the thin conductive wire441(referred to simply as “sectional shape” or “section” herebelow). The thinconductive wires441constituting theconductive pattern440are formed on the substrate430(surface431a). In the illustrated example, the thinconductive wire441includes asurface441aon the side of thesubstrate430, asurface441bon the side opposed to thesubstrate430, andside surfaces441c,441d. In the illustrated example, thesurface441aon the side of thesubstrate430and thesurface441bon the side opposed to thesubstrate430are in parallel. Theside surface441cforms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to theside surface441das a certain point in theside surface441cmoves away from thesubstrate430along a normal direction of the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet420. Theside surface441dalso forms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to theside surface441cas a certain point in theside surface441dmoves away from thesubstrate430along the normal direction of the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet420. Namely, the thinconductive wire441has substantially a trapezoidal section in general, in the sectional view perpendicular to the extension direction thereof.More specifically, the thinconductive wire441is formed such that a line width thereof narrows along the normal direction to the sheet plane of thesubstrate430, i.e., the line width narrows as a certain point in the thinconductive wire441moves away outward from thesurface431a. In addition, as shown inFIG. 72, when theconductive pattern sheet420is incorporated in theheating plate410, the thinconductive wire441is formed such that its line width narrows as a certain point in the thinconductive wire441comes close to thefirst glass plate411located on the side of the firstjoint layer413in contact with the thin conductive wire441(the thinconductive wire441is formed such that its line gradually becomes smaller towards thefirst glass plate411located on the side of the firstjoint layer413in contact with the thin conductive wire441).FIG. 76AandFIG. 76Bare enlarged views of the sectional shape of the thinconductive wire441shown inFIG. 75.FIG. 76Ashows, in the trapezoidal sectional shape of the thinconductive wire441, an angle α which is defined by a line segment forming a sidewall of the thinconductive wire441, which extends from an end of a lower base (surface441a) to an end of an upper base (surface441b), with respect to a direction extending along the lower base. The angle α is preferably an angle in a range between not less than 40 degrees and not more than 85 degrees. When the angle α is less than 40 degrees, suitable heat generation is difficult to be obtained unless a line width of the thinconductive wire441is increased. As a result, the thinconductive wire441having a larger width may deteriorate visibility of theheating plate410. Thus, the angle α is preferably not less than 40 degrees.FIG. 76Ashows an example in which the sectional shape of the thinconductive wire441is a neat trapezoidal shape. However, as shown inFIG. 76B, there is a possibility that the side surfaces441c,441dare formed of curved lines because of manufacturing conditions and so on. In the present invention, such a shape is included in a concept of trapezoidal shape. Also in this case, as shown inFIG. 76B, the angle α is specified as an angle defined by the line segment which extends from the end of the lower base (surface441a) to the end of the upper base (surface441b), with respect to the direction extending along the lower base. This angle α is also preferably not less than 40 degrees and not more than 85 degrees. In this embodiment, the sectional shape of the thinconductive wire441is trapezoidal. However, as long as the thinconductive wire441is formed such that its line width narrows as a certain point in the thinconductive wire441comes close to thefirst glass plate411, the thinconductive wire441may have a tier-like shape, for example.In a case where the thinconductive wire441is formed such that its line width narrows as a certain point in the thinconductive wire441comes close to thefirst glass plate411located on the side of the firstjoint layer413in contact with the thinconductive wire441, when theglass plates411,412, thejoint layers413,414and theconductive pattern sheet420are laminated, the joint layer421can easily get into a root side of the thinconductive wire441. As a result it can be restrained that bubbles remain around the sidewalls (surfaces441c,442d) of the thinconductive wire441.InFIG. 75, Wmaxrepresents a line width of the thinconductive wire441on the root along the sheet plane of thesubstrate430, showing a line width of a part having a largest width of the thin conductive wire441(referred to as “maximum width” herebelow). In this embodiment, the maximum width Wmaxof the thinconductive wire441is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm. The maximum width Wmaxis preferably not less than 2 μm and not more than 20 μm, and more preferably not less than 2 μm and not more than 15 μm. Thus, theconductive pattern440is seen transparent in general, and has an excellent see-through property. In addition, a height (thickness) H of the thinconductive wire441, i.e., the height (thickness) H along the normal direction to the sheet plane of thesubstrate430is preferably not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm, and more preferably not less than 1 μm and not more than 12 μm. Since the thinconductive wire441having such a height dimension, in addition to the line width Wmax, is sufficiently thin, theconductive pattern440can be effectively made invisible.InFIG. 75, the symbol P represents a pitch between the adjacent openings443(distance between centers of the adjacent openings443) in the honeycomb pattern of theconductive pattern440when it has a honeycomb pattern. The pitch P is preferably not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm. The pitch P may be not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 7.0 mm. When theconductive pattern440has a grid pattern, a pitch between adjacent rectangular openings in the grid pattern is preferably not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm. Also in this case, the pitch may be not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 7.0 mm. In addition, when theconductive pattern440has a line and space pattern, a pitch, which is a distance between the adjacent thinconductive wires441, is preferably not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm. Also in this case, the pitch P may be not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 7.0 mm.In addition, in the illustrated example, the thinconductive wire441includes a firstdark color layer446disposed on thesubstrate430, aconductive metal layer445disposed on the firstdark color layer446, and a seconddark color layer447disposed on theconductive metal layer445. In other words, the surface of theconductive metal layer445on the side of thesubstrate430is covered with the firstdark color layer446, and the surface of theconductive metal layer445on the side opposed to thesubstrate430and both side surfaces thereof are covered with the seconddark color layer447.Theconductive metal layer445made of a metal material has relatively a high reflectance. When light is reflected on theconductive metal layer445forming theconductive metal wires441of theconductive pattern440, the reflected light may be visible, which hinders a field of view of a passenger. In addition, when theconductive metal layer445is visible from outside, design is sometimes impaired. Thus, the dark color layers446,447are disposed at least a part of the surface of theconductive metal layer445. The dark color layers446,447are layer having a visible light reflectance that is lower than that of theconductive metal layer445, and are black-colored dark color layers, for example. Due to the dark color layers446,447, theconductive metal layer445becomes less visible, whereby an excellent field of view of a passenger can be ensured. In addition, impairment of design when seen from outside can be prevented. However, such dark color layers446,447may be omitted.Next, an example of a manufacturing method of theheating plate410is described with reference toFIGS. 77 to 86.FIGS. 77 to 86are sectional views showing the example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate410in sequence. In particular,FIGS. 77 to 85are views for explaining manufacture of theconductive pattern sheet420in detail.FIG. 86shows that, after theconductive pattern sheet420is manufactured, theconductive pattern sheet420is sandwiched between theglass plates411,412so that theheating plate410is manufactured.In order to manufacture theconductive pattern sheet420, as shown inFIG. 77, there is firstly prepared ametal foil450having a pair ofopposed surfaces450a,450b. Themetal foil450will form theconductive metal layer445of the thinconductive wire441. Themetal foil450may be a foil made of gold, silver, copper, platinum, aluminum, chrome, molybdenum, nickel, titanium, palladium, indium, tungsten and an alloy thereof, for example. A thickness of themetal foil450may be not less than 1 μm and not more than 60 μm.Then, as shown inFIG. 78, in the illustrated example, adark color film460, which will form the firstdark color layer446of the thinconductive wire441, is formed on thesurface450bof themetal foil450. In this example, thedark color film460is made of chrome oxide. When thedark color film460to be formed on themetal foil450is made of chrome oxide, thedark color film460may be deposited by a spattering method or a vacuum vapor deposition method, for example, or may be formed by a treatment with a solution of sodium chlorite, sodium hydroxide and trisodium phosphate. In addition, for example, thedark color film460may be formed by subjecting a part of a material constituting themetal foil450to a darkening treatment (blackening treatment), and the firstdark color film460made of metallic oxide or metallic sulfide can be formed from the part constituting themetal foil450. In addition, thedark color film460may be made of copper nitride, copper oxide, nickel nitride and so on.Then, as shown inFIG. 79, thesubstrate430is prepared. Thesubstrate430and themetal foil450are located such that thesurface431aof thesubstrate430and thesurface450bof themetal foil450on which thedark color film460was formed face each other. Thereafter, as shown inFIG. 80, themetal foil450is laminated on thesurface431aof thesubstrate430through an adhesive layer. Thesubstrate430may have a thickness of not less than 0.02 mm and not more than 0.20 mm, and may be made of polyethylene terephthalate, polyethylene naphthalate, polycarbonate, polystyrene, cyclic polyolefin and so on.Then, as shown inFIG. 81, the resistlayer448is disposed on themetal foil450. The resistlayer448is a resin layer having a photosensitivity to light of a predetermined wavelength range, such as ultraviolet light. The resin layer may be formed by adhering a resin film, or may be formed by applying a flowable resin. A concrete photosensitive property of the resistlayer448is not specifically limited. For example, a photo-curing type photosensitive material or a photo-dissolving photosensitive material may be used as the resistlayer448.Thereafter, as shown inFIG. 82, the resistlayer448is patterned to form (laminate) a resistpattern449. Various known methods may be used as the method of patterning the resistpattern449. In this example, a resin layer having a photosensitivity to light of a predetermined wavelength range, such as ultraviolet light, is used as the resistlayer448, and a known photolithographic technique is used for patterning the resistlayer448. Firstly, a mask which opens a part to be patterned or a mask which shields a part to be patterned is placed on the resistlayer448, and the resistlayer448is irradiated with ultraviolet light through the mask. Thereafter, the part shielded by the mask from the ultraviolet light or the part irradiated with the ultraviolet light is developed and removed by means of solution such as a water. Thereafter, the remaining resistlayer448is subjected to a curing process such as a heating process or a chrome film curing process and so on, and is then baked at a predetermined temperature. Thus, the patterned resistpattern449can be formed.Then, as shown inFIG. 83, themetal foil450including thedark color film460is etched with the resistpattern449serving as a mask. Due to this etching process, themetal foil450including thedark color film460is patterned substantially similar to the resistpattern449. As a result, theconductive metal layer445, which will form a part of the thinconductive wire441, is formed from the patternedmetal foil450. In addition, the firstdark color layer446, which will form a part of the thinconductive wire441, is formed from the patterneddark color film460. Theconductive metal layer445is formed such that its line width narrows along the normal direction to the sheet plane of thesubstrate430, i.e., the line width narrows as a certain point in the thinconductive wire441moves away outward from thesurface431a. The etching method is not particularly limited, and a known method may be employed. The known method may be a wet etching method using etchant, a plasma etching method and so on.In this embodiment, in order that the line width of theconductive metal layer445has a desired shape, i.e., the line width narrows as a certain point in theconductive metal wire445moves away from thesurface431a, a predetermined operation is carried out. One example of the predetermined operation for forming the desired shape is an operation that lowers a contact between the resistpattern449and themetal foil450. A concrete method of lowering the contact is as follows. In the baking step at a predetermined temperature which is performed after the process for curing the remaining resistlayer448after being developed in the step of forming the resistpattern449, the baking is performed at a temperature less than 100 degrees, e.g., not less than 80 degrees and not more than 95 degrees, in order that the resistpattern449is completely dried. In addition, another example of the predetermined operation for forming the desired shape is as follows. When themetal foil450including thedark color film460is etched with the resistpattern449serving as a mask, wet etching is employed. In this case, a concentration of an etchant used in the wet etching is made to be greater than a predetermined concentration, or a temperature of the etchant is made to be higher than a predetermined temperature, or an etching period by the etchant is made shorter than a predetermined period. A yet another example of the predetermined operation for forming the desired shape is as follows. When an ultraviolet curing type resin is used in the resistlayer448, a UV intensity of the resin is lowered.After themetal foil450including thedark color film460is etched as described above, the resistpattern449is removed as shown inFIG. 84.Then, as shown inFIG. 85, the seconddark color layer447is formed on thesurface441aof theconductive metal layer445on the side opposed to the firstdark color layer446and the side surfaces441c,441d. The seconddark color layer447is formed by, e.g., subjecting a part of a material constituting theconductive metal layer445to a darkening treatment (blackening treatment). Namely, in this case, the seconddark color layer447made of metallic oxide or metallic sulfide can be formed from the part constituting theconductive metal layer445. Alternatively, the seconddark color layer447as a coating film made of a dark color material or a plated layer made of nickel or chrome may be disposed on the surface of theconductive metal layer445. In addition, the surface of theconductive metal layer445may be roughened, and the seconddark color layer447may be disposed thereon.In this manner, theconductive pattern sheet420is manufactured. Thereafter, as shown inFIG. 86, the curvedfirst glass plate411, the firstjoint layer413, theconductive pattern sheet420, the secondjoint layer414and the curvedsecond glass plate412are superposed in this order, and heated and pressurized, so that the curvedfirst glass plate411, theconductive pattern sheet420and the curvedsecond glass plate412are joined by thejoint layers413,414. Therefore, theheating plate420is manufactured.Theaforementioned heating plate410in this embodiment includes the pair ofglass plates411,412, and theconductive pattern440disposed between the pair ofglass plates411,412. Theconductive pattern440has the thinconductive wires441that are arranged in a pattern. In addition, theheating plate410includes the firstjoint layer413disposed between thefirst glass plate411of the pair of glass plates and theconductive pattern440to be directly in contact with thefirst glass plate411and the thinconductive wires441, so as to join theconductive pattern440to thefirst glass plate411. The thinconductive wire441is formed such that its line width narrows as a certain point in the thinconductive wire441comes close to thefirst glass plate411located on the side of the firstjoint layer413with which the thinconductive wire441is in contact.According to such aheating plate410, when theglass plates411,412, thejoint layers413,414and theconductive pattern sheet420are laminated during the manufacturing process, thejoint layer413can easily get into the root side of the thinconductive wire441, particularly upon heating. As a result it can be restrained that bubbles remain around the sidewalls (surfaces441c,442d) of the thinconductive wire441. Thus, according to this embodiment, an appearance quality of theheating plate410can be improved, and glaring is restrained from occurring in theheating plate410.The aforementioned embodiment can be variously modified. Modification examples are described with reference suitably to the drawings. In the below description and the drawings for the description, a component that can be similarly made as that of the above embodiment is shown by the same symbol as a component corresponding to the above embodiment, and overlapped description is omitted.In a modification example shown inFIG. 87, theconductive pattern440is disposed on a surface of thefirst glass plate411facing thesecond glass plate412, through a holding layer not shown. Thesubstrate430as described in the above embodiment is not provided. The holding layer has a thickness of about 1 μm to 100 μm. The holding layer joins theconductive pattern440to thefirst glass plate411, by a peeling layer (illustration omitted) formed on a surface facing theglass plate411. On the other hand, a thirdjoint layer423is disposed between theconductive pattern440and thesecond glass plate412. The thirdjoint layer423is directly in contact with thesecond glass plate412and the thinconductive wires441, so as to join theconductive pattern440to thesecond glass plate412through the thinconductive wires441with which the thirdjoint layer423is in contact. The thinconductive wire441is formed such that a line width thereof narrows as a certain point in the thinconductive wire441comes close to thesecond glass plate412located on the side of the thirdjoint layer423. Also in this modification example, the same effect as that of the above embodiment can be obtained. In this example, when theconductive pattern440is formed by patterning, there exists a substrate that supports theconductive pattern440. However, this substrate is peeled when theconductive pattern440is joined to thefirst glass plate411. Thus, the above-described holding layer is exposed. The peeling layer formed on the holding layer may be, for example, a peeling layer of an interface peeling type, a peeling layer of an interlayer peeling type, a peeling layer of a cohesion peeling type and so on.Next, in a modification example shown inFIG. 88, theconductive pattern440is disposed on therespective surfaces431a,431bof thesubstrate430in theconductive pattern sheet420. The firstjoint layer413is disposed between thefirst glass411and theconductive pattern440provided on thesurface431a. The firstjoint layer413is directly in contact with thefirst glass plate411and the thinconductive wires441of theconductive pattern440provided on thesurface431a, so as to join theconductive pattern440to thefirst glass plate411through the thinconductive wire441with which the firstjoint layer413is in contact. The thinconductive wire441is formed such that a line width thereof narrows as a certain point in the thinconductive wire441comes close to thefirst glass plate411located on the side of the firstjoint layer413in contact with the thinconductive wire441.On the other hand, the secondjoint layer414is disposed between thesecond glass plate412and theconductive pattern440provided on thesurface431b. The secondjoint layer414is directly in contact with thesecond glass plate412and the thinconductive wire441of theconductive pattern440provided on thesurface431b, so as to join theconductive pattern440to thesecond glass plate412through the thinconductive wire441with which the secondjoint layer412is in contact. The thinconductive wire441is formed such that a line width thereof narrows as a certain point in the thinconductive wire441comes close to thesecond glass plate412located on the side of the secondjoint layer414in contact with the thinconductive wire441. Also in this modification example, the same effect as that of the above embodiment can be obtained.The aforementioned embodiment and the modification examples can be more variously modified.For example, in the example shown inFIG. 75, the seconddark color layer447is formed on thesurface441aof theconductive metal layer445on the side opposed to the firstdark color layer446and the side surfaces241c,241d. However, not limited thereto, the seconddark color layer247may be formed only on thesurface441aof theconductive metal layer445on the side opposed to the firstdark color layer446, or only on the side surfaces441c,441dof theconductive metal layer445.When the seconddark color layer447is formed only on thesurface441aof theconductive metal layer245on the side opposed to the firstdark color layer446, after the step shown inFIG. 80, for example, the seconddark color layer447and the resistpattern449are disposed in this order on themetal foil450. Thereafter, the seconddark color layer447, theconductive metal layer445and the firstdark color layer446are etched with the resistpattern449serving as a mask.Alternatively, when the seconddark color layer447is formed only on the side surfaces441c,441dof theconductive metal layer445, after the step shown inFIG. 83, for example, the seconddark color layer447is formed without removing the resistpattern449. After that, the resistpattern449is removed.Theheating plate410may be used in a rear window, a side window and a sun roof of theautomobile1. In addition, theheating plate410may be used in a window of a vehicle other than an automobile, such as a railway, an aircraft, a vessel, a space vessel and so on.Further, in addition to a vehicle, theheating plate410may be used in a part by which an inside and an outside is partitioned, such as a window of a building, a store and a house.Although some modification examples of the above third embodiment are described, the modification examples can be naturally combined with one another for application.The present invention is described in more detail herebelow by using an example. However, the present invention is not limited to the example.ExampleTheheating plate410in Example was manufactured as follows. As thesubstrate430, there was firstly prepared a PET (polyethylene terephthalate) film (manufactured by TOYOBO Co., Ltd A4300) having a thickness of 100 μm, a width of 82 cm and a length of 100 m. A two-pack mixture type urethane ester-based adhesive was applied to thesubstrate430by a gravure coater, such that a thickness of the cured adhesive became 7 μm. Then, an electrolytic copper foil having a thickness of 10 μm, a width of 81 cm and a length of 80 m was laminated as themetal foil450on thesubstrate430through an adhesive. The electrolytic copper foil and thesubstrate430were maintained for 4 days in an environment of 50° C., so that the electrolytic copper foil was secured on thesubstrate430.Thereafter, casein was applied to the electrolytic copper foil (metal foil450) and dried so as to laminate the resist layer48as a photosensitive resin layer. Then, in a plurality of ranges specified by 100 cm×80 cm in the resist layer48, a mesh-like pattern of 3.0 mm in pitch and 7 μm in line width was exposed with a photomask having a pattern formed thereon. In this exposure process, ultraviolet contact exposure was intermittently carried out. After the exposure process, a part where the resistpattern449was not formed was developed by water and removed. The remaining resist layer48was heated at 80° C. for 2 minutes and was baked at a temperature of 85 degrees. Thus, the resistpattern449was formed. The resistpattern449was formed in a mesh-like pattern of 3.0 mm in pitch and 7 μm in line width.Then, a ferric chloride solution (Baume degree of 42, temperature of 30 degrees) was sprayed to themetal foil450from the resistpattern449, with the resistpattern449serving as a mask, so as to etch themetal foil450. After cleaning with water, the resist is peeled by using an alkali solution. After the resist was peeled, cleaning and drying were carried out. Then, there was obtained a laminate including a plurality of theconductive pattern sheets420including thesubstrate430made of PET/the adhesive layer/theconductive pattern440made of copper (conductive mesh). Theconductive pattern440in theconductive pattern sheet420was made as a range of 100 cm×80 cm wherein the thinconductive wires441were arranged in a mesh-like pattern of 3.0 mm in pitch and 7 μm in line width. The thinconductive wire441was formed into a trapezoidal shape in a section in a direction perpendicular to the extension direction of the thin conductive wire. In the trapezoidal section of the thinconductive wire441, an angle α that was defined by a line segment which extends from an end of a lower base (surface441a) to an end of an upper base (surface441b), with respect to a direction extending along the lower base, i.e., a basic angle was 75 degrees.Then, theconductive pattern sheet420of 100 cm×80 cm was cut from the thus obtained laminate. Theconductive pattern sheet420was sandwiched between thejoint layers413,414formed of PVB adhesive sheets having the same size as that of theconductive pattern sheet420. Then, they are further sandwiched between theglass plates411,412of 100 cm×80 cm, and were heated/pressurized (vacuum laminated). Then, theheating plate410according to Example was obtained.Upon inspection of theheating plate410according to Example with eyes, no bubble was found. In addition, when a point light source distant from 3 m was observed via theheating plate410, there was no fine glaring caused by bubbles.Comparative ExampleA heating plate in Comparative Example was manufactured by using the same materials and the same steps as those of Example, excluding that a baking temperature for forming the resist pattern was 100 degrees. In the heating plate in Comparative Example, the thin conductive wire had a rectangular sectional shape in a direction perpendicular to the extension direction of the thin conductive wire. The basic angle was about 90 degrees. Upon inspection of the heating plate in Comparative Example with eyes, some bubbles were found. In addition, when a point light source distant from 3 m was observed via the heating plate, there was fine glaring caused by bubbles.

This application is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 16/393,057, filed Apr. 24, 2019, which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 15/104,585, filed Jun. 15, 2016, now U.S. Pat. No. 10,384,649, issued Aug. 20, 2019, which in turn is a National Stage of International Application No. PCT/JP2015/082303, filed Nov. 17, 2015, which designated the United States, the entireties of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a heating plate, a conductive pattern sheet for the heating plate, a vehicle having the heating plate, and a method of manufacturing the heating plate.

As a defroster apparatus used for a pane, such as a front window and a rear window of a vehicle, a defroster apparatus locating a heating wire formed of a tungsten wire or the like all over the pane is known. In the conventional technique, by powering the heating wire provided all over the pane to raise a temperature of the pane by means of resistance heat, the pane is defogged or defrosted to ensure a field of view of a passenger.

In a defroster apparatus disclosed in JP2013-173402A, a tungsten wire is used as the heating wire. In this case, the heating wire has an increased cross-sectional area in order to prevent that electric resistance of the heating wire becomes too high because of a higher electric resistivity of tungsten. Thus, the heating wire using the tungsten wire is easily visible to an observer. The fact that the heating wire is visible to an observer such as a driver deteriorates a visibility of the observer through the pane.

There is recently known another defroster apparatus manufactured by creating a conductive pattern by photolithographic technique in place of a heating wire formed of a tungsten wire or the like. By powering the conductive pattern, a temperature of a pane is raised by means of resistance heat (JP2011-216378A and JP2012-151116A). This method is advantageous in that even a conductive pattern of a complicated shape can be easily formed. In JP2011-216378A and 3P2012-151116A, a conductive pattern having an irregular shape obtained from a Voronoi diagram is formed, and the conductive pattern is used as a heating wire for raising a temperature of a pane.

FIG. 23shows a partially enlargedconductive pattern540of a conventional defroster apparatus disclosed in JP2011-216378A and JP2012-151116A. In the conventional defroster apparatus, theconductive pattern540includes a plurality ofconnection elements544that extend between twobranch points542to defineopening areas543. Eachconnection element544is formed of one straight line. The inventors of the present invention have conducted extensive studies on the defroster apparatus having such aconnection element544and found that theconductive pattern540including theconnection elements544may be visible to an observer (e.g., a passenger such as a driver), because of the shape of eachconnection element544formed of one straight line. When light such as outside light incident on the defroster apparatus enters a side surface formed of a flat surface of theconnection element544, the light incident on each position of the side surface is reflected on the side surface in substantially a certain direction. The reflected light is visible to an observer so that theconductive pattern540including theconnection elements544is visible to the observer. The fact that theconductive pattern540including theconnection elements544is visible to the observer such as a driver deteriorates a visibility of the observer through the pane.

The present invention has been made in view of the above circumstances. The first object of the present invention is to improve an invisibility of the conductive pattern of the defroster apparatus.

Various materials have been conventionally used for a heating wire of the defroster apparatus. For example, JP9-207718A discloses that a heating wire is made of tungsten. The heating wires disclosed in JP9-207718A are arranged in a so-called line and space pattern in which the plurality of heating wires are arranged in one direction.

The heating wire (thin conductive wire) in the defroster apparatus is desired to be as thin as possible, in order to improve a see-through property of a pane. However, the heating wire made of tungsten as in JP9-207718A has a relatively higher volume resistivity. Thus, in consideration of heat generation by the resistance heat of the electric wire upon being powered, it is difficult to make extremely thinner the heating wire. Thus, when the heating wire as disclosed in JP9-207718A is used in the defroster apparatus, there is a difficulty in exhibiting an excellent see-through property, while realizing a suitable heat generation function.

When the heating wires made of tungsten as disclosed in JP9-207718A are used in the defroster apparatus, the heating wires are sometimes heated/pressurized while being sandwiched between a pair of glass plates. In this case, before the heating/pressurizing step, the heating wires are generally manufactured as thin wires in a separate step. The heating wires formed in the separate step are placed and positioned in a desired pattern between a pair of glass plates, and the pair of glass plates in this condition are heated/pressurized. However, this positioning operation requires time and effort in order to precisely position the electric wires. In addition, when the pair of glass plates are heated/pressurized, there is a possibility that the electric wires are shifted from the determined positions.

The present invention has been made in view of the above circumstances. The second object of the present invention is to provide a heating plate and a method of manufacturing the same, which is capable of achieving an excellent see-through property because thin conductive wires disposed between glass plates are sufficiently thin, and of achieving an excellent heat generation upon being powered although the line widths of the thin conductive wires are thin, while a desired pattern of the thin conductive wires can be easily given to the heating plate with high precision.

In addition, the third object of the present invention is to provide a heating plate, a pattern sheet and a method of manufacturing the same, which is capable of achieving an excellent see-through property because the thin conductive wires disposed between glass plates are sufficiently thin, and of achieving an excellent heat generation upon being powered although the line widths of the thin conductive wires are thin.

JP2010-3667A discloses that heating wires are formed by exposing, developing and fixing a silver-salt photosensitive layer on a substrate. In addition, JP2010-3667A discloses that heating wires are formed by laminating a metal foil on a substrate and etching the metal foil, and that heating wires are formed by printing a paste containing metal particles on a substrate. Further, there is disclosed that heating wire are formed by printing heating wires on a substrate by means of a screen printing plate.

In such a defroster apparatus, a pair of glass plates, with a joint layer and heating wires being sandwiched therebetween, are heated and pressurized so as to manufacture a heating plate, and a defroster apparatus is formed of the heating plate. When such a heating plate is manufactured with the use of the heating wires disclosed in JP2010-3667A, the heating wires, which are integral with a sheet-like substrate, are disposed between a pair of glass plates, and then heated and pressurized. In more detail, a glass plate, a joint layer, a substrate integral with the heating wires, a joint layer and a glass plate are superposed in this order, and then heated and pressurized. In the thus manufactured heating plate, the one joint layer of the two joint layers is directly in contact with the glass plate and the substrate to join the glass plate and the substrate, and the other joint layer is directly in contact with the heating wire and the glass plate to join the heating wire and the glass plate.

Each heating wire disclosed in JP2010-3667A is formed to project along a normal direction of a sheet plane of a sheet-like substrate, and a sidewall thereof extends along the normal direction of the sheet pale of the substrate. The sidewall of such a heating wire may have an overhang shape, for some reason or other in the course of manufacture. The overhang shape means a shape of a heating wire that sidewall of the heating wire inclinedly extends to the outside in a direction along the sheet plane of the substrate, as a certain point in the sidewall moves away from the substrate along the normal direction of the sheet plane of the substrate. Such an overhang shape particularly tends to be formed when a heating wire is formed by etching or by printing a paste containing metal particles.

However, in the case where the sidewall of a heating wire has a shape that extends along the normal direction of the sheet plane of the substrate or the overhang shape, when the heating wire and the joint layer are brought into contact with each other in the heating and pressurizing step during the manufacture of a heating plate, it is difficult for the joint layer to get into a root side of the heating wire, so that bubbles are likely to remain around the sidewall of the heating wire. These bubbles may impair an appearance quality of the heating plate as well as resulting in glaring (glittering). Thus, in the manufacture of the heating plate, countermeasure against remaining of the bubbles is desired.

The present invention has been made in view of the above circumstances. The fourth object of the present invention is to restrain remaining of bubbles in a heating plate.

A first object of the present invention is to improve invisibility of a conductive pattern in a defroster apparatus. The first object is achieved by a first embodiment of the present invention.

A heating plate according to the first embodiment of the present invention includes:

a pair of glass plates;

a conductive pattern disposed between the pair of glass plates and defining a plurality of opening areas; and

a joint layer disposed between the conductive pattern and at least one of the pair of glass plates;

wherein:

the conductive pattern includes a plurality of connection elements that extend between two branch points to define the opening areas; and

a rate of the connection elements, which are straight line segments connecting the two branch points, relative to the plurality of connection elements, is less than 20%.

In the heating plate according to the first embodiment of the present invention, the conductive pattern may be formed by patterning a conductive layer by etching.

In the heating plate according to the first embodiment of the present invention, an average distance between centers of gravity of the two adjacent opening areas may be not less than 80 μm. The average distance between centers of gravity of the two adjacent opening areas may be not less than 70 μm.

In the heating plate according to the first embodiment of the present invention, a thickness of the conductive pattern may be not less than 5 μm. A thickness of the conductive pattern may be not less than 2 μm.

In the heating plate according to the first embodiment of the present invention, an average of ratio (L1/L2) of a length L1of each opening area along a first direction, relative to a length L2of the opening area along a second direction perpendicular to the first direction, may be not less than 1.3 and not more than 1.8.

A conductive pattern sheet according to the first embodiment of the present invention includes:

a substrate; and

a conductive pattern disposed on the substrate and defining a plurality of opening areas;

wherein:

the conductive pattern includes a plurality of connection elements that extend between two branch points to define the opening areas; and

a rate of the connection elements, which are straight line segments connecting the two branch points, relative to the plurality of connection elements, is less than 20%.

A vehicle according to the first embodiment of the present invention includes the aforementioned heating plate.

According to the first embodiment of the present invention, it is possible to improve invisibility of a conductive pattern in a defroster apparatus.

The first object of the present invention is achieved by a second embodiment of the present invention.

A heating plate according to the second embodiment of the present invention includes:

a pair of glass plates;

a conductive pattern disposed between the pair of glass plates and including a thin conductive wire; and

a joint layer disposed between the conductive pattern and at least one of the pair of glass plates;

wherein:

the thin conductive wire of the conductive pattern has a first surface facing one of the pair of glass plates, and a second surface facing the other of the pair of glass plate; and when a width of the first surface of the thin conductive wire is represented as W2a(μm), a width of the second surface of the thin conductive wire is represented as W2b(μm), and a cross-sectional area of the thin conductive wire is represented as S2a(μm2), the following relationships represented (a) and (b) are satisfied.

0<|W2a−W2b|≤10  (a)

S2a≥10  (b)

In the heating plate according to the second embodiment of the present invention, the conductive pattern may be formed by patterning a conductive layer by etching.

In the heating plate according to the second embodiment of the present invention, the conductive pattern may include a pattern defining a plurality of opening areas; and the conductive pattern may include a plurality of connection elements that extend between two branch points to define the opening areas.

In the heating plate according to the second embodiment of the present invention, an average of the number of the connection elements extending from one branch point may be more than 3.0 and less than 4.0.

In the heating plate according to the second embodiment of the present invention, the conductive pattern may include opening areas surrounded by four, five, six and seven connection elements, respectively; and among the opening areas included in the conductive pattern, the number of opening areas surrounded by six connection elements may be predominant.

In the heating plate according to the second embodiment of the present invention, at least some of the plurality of connection elements may have a curved shape or a polygonal line shape, when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane of the heating plate.

A conductive pattern sheet according to the second embodiment of the present invention includes:

a substrate; and

a conductive pattern disposed on the substrate and including a thin conductive wire;

wherein:

the thin conductive wire of the conductive pattern has a proximal surface forming a surface on the side of the substrate, and a distal surface facing the proximal surface;

when a width of the distal surface of the thin conductive wire is represented as W2c(μm), a width W2dof the proximal surface of the thin conductive wire is represented as W2d(μm), and a cross-sectional area of the thin conductive wire is represented as S2b(μm2), the following relationships represented (c) and (d) are satisfied.

0<|W2c−W2d|≤10  (c)

S2b≥10  (d)

A vehicle according to the second embodiment of the present invention includes the aforementioned heating plate.

According to the second embodiment of the present invention, invisibility of a conductive pattern in a defroster apparatus can be improved.

A second object of the present invention is to provide a heating plate capable of obtaining an excellent see-though property because a thin conductive wire disposed between glass plates is sufficiently thin, capable of obtaining suitable heat generation upon being powered although a line width of the thin conductive wire is thin, and to which thin conductive wires in a desired pattern can be easily given precisely, and a manufacturing method thereof. The second object is achieved by a third embodiment of the present invention.

A first heating plate according to the third embodiment of the present invention includes:

a pair of glass plates; and

a conductive pattern disposed between the pair of glass plates;

wherein:

the conductive pattern includes a plurality of thin conductive wires that are formed of a patterned copper film and are arranged in one direction, each thin conductive wire extending in the other direction not in parallel with the one direction apart from another thin conductive wire adjacent in the one direction;

a line width of the thin conductive wire is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm; and

a pitch between the adjacent thin conductive wires is not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm.

A second heating plate according to the third embodiment of the present invention includes:

a pair of glass plates; and

a conductive pattern disposed between the pair of glass plates;

wherein:

the conductive pattern includes a plurality of thin conductive wires that are formed of a patterned copper film and are arranged in a line and space pattern;

a line width of the thin conductive wire is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm; and

a pitch between the adjacent thin conductive wires is not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm.

In the first or second heating plate according to the third embodiment of the present invention, each thin conductive wire may extend in a pattern of a polygonal line shape or in a pattern of a corrugated shape.

In the first or second heating plate according to the third embodiment of the present invention, the copper film may be an electrolytic copper foil. In this case, a thickness of the electrolytic copper foil may be not more than 7 μm.

A manufacturing method of the first heating plate according to the third embodiment of the present invention is a manufacturing method of a heating plate including a pair of glass plates and a conductive pattern disposed between the pair of glass plates, the manufacturing method including:

laminating a copper film on a substrate; and

forming the conductive pattern including a plurality of thin conductive wires formed by patterning the copper film;

wherein:

the plurality of thin conductive wires are arranged in one direction;

each thin conductive wire extends in the other direction not in parallel with the one direction apart from another thin conductive wire adjacent in the one direction; and

a line width of the thin conductive wire is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm, and a pitch between the adjacent thin conductive wires is not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm.

A manufacturing method of the second heating plate according to the third embodiment of the present invention is:

a manufacturing method of a heating plate including a pair of glass plates and a conductive pattern disposed between the pair of glass plates, the manufacturing method including:

laminating a copper film on the substrate; and

forming the conductive pattern including a plurality of thin conductive wires formed by patterning the copper film;

wherein:

the plurality of thin conductive wires are arranged in a line and space pattern; and

a line width of the thin conductive wire is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm, and a pitch between the adjacent thin conductive wires is not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm.

In the first or second heating plate according to the third embodiment of the present invention, the copper film may be an electrolytic copper foil. In this case, a thickness of the electrolytic copper foil may be not more than 7 μm.

According to the third embodiment, it is possible to provide a heating plate capable of obtaining an excellent see-though property because a thin conductive wire disposed between glass plates is sufficiently thin, capable of obtaining suitable heat generation upon being powered although a line width of the thin conductive wire is thin, and to which thin conductive wires in a desired pattern can be easily given precisely, and a manufacturing method thereof.

A third object of the present invention is to provide a heating plate and a pattern sheet capable of obtaining an excellent see-though property because a thin conductive wire disposed between glass plates is sufficiently thin, and capable of obtaining suitable heat generation upon being powered although a line width of the thin conductive wire is thin, and a manufacturing method thereof. The third object is achieved by a fourth embodiment of the present invention.

A heating plate according to the fourth embodiment of the present invention includes:

a pair of glass plates; and

a conductive pattern disposed between the pair of glass plates;

wherein:

the conductive pattern includes thin conductive wires formed of a patterned copper film and arranged in a mesh pattern; and

a line width of the thin conductive wire is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm.

In the heating plate according to the fourth embodiment of the present invention, the thin conductive wires may be arranged in a honeycomb pattern.

In this case, a pitch of adjacent hexagonal openings in the honeycomb pattern may be not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 7.0 mm.

In the heating plate according to the fourth embodiment of the present invention, the thin conductive wires may be arranged in a grid pattern.

In this case, a pitch of adjacent rectangular openings in the grid pattern may be not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 7.0 mm.

A conductive pattern sheet according to the fourth embodiment of the present invention is a conductive pattern sheet used in a heating plate that generates heat upon application of voltage thereto, the conductive pattern sheet including:

a substrate; and

a conductive pattern disposed on the substrate;

wherein:

the conductive pattern includes thin conductive wires formed of a patterned copper film and arranged in a mesh pattern; and

a line width of the thin conductive wire is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm.

A manufacturing method of a heating plate according to the fourth embodiment of the present invention is a manufacturing method of a heating plate including a pair of glass plates and a conductive pattern disposed between the pair of glass plates, the manufacturing method including:

laminating a copper film on a substrate; and

forming the conductive pattern including thin conductive wires formed by patterning the copper film;

wherein:

the thin conductive wires are arranged in a mesh pattern; and

a line width of the thin conductive wire is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm.

According to the fourth embodiment, it is possible to provide a heating plate and a pattern sheet capable of obtaining an excellent see-though property because a thin conductive wire disposed between glass plates is sufficiently thin, and capable of obtaining suitable heat generation upon being powered although a line width of the thin conductive wire is thin, and a manufacturing method thereof.

A fourth object of the present invention is to restrain bubbles from remaining in a heating plate. The fourth object is achieved by a fifth embodiment of the present invention.

A heating plate according to the fifth embodiment of the present invention includes: a heating plate including a pair of glass plates and a conductive pattern disposed between the pair of glass plates, the conductive pattern including thin conductive wires arranged in a pattern, the heating plate comprising:

a joint layer disposed between at least one of the pair of glass plates and the conductive pattern, the joint layer being directly in contact with the glass plate and the thin conductive wires so as to join the conductive pattern to the glass plate;

wherein the thin conductive wire is formed such that a line width thereof narrows as a certain point in the thin conductive wire comes close to the glass plates located on the side of the joint layer in contact with the thin conductive wires.

In the heating plate according to the fifth embodiment of the present invention, the thin conductive wires may be formed from a metal film that is patterned by etching.

In the heating plate according to the fifth embodiment of the present invention, the thin conductive wire may be formed to have a trapezoidal sectional shape in a direction perpendicular to an extension direction of the thin conductive wire.

In the heating plate according to the fifth embodiment of the present invention, the trapezoidal sectional shape in the thin conductive wire may have an angle which is defined by a line segment extending from an end of a lower base to an end of an upper base, with respect to a direction extending along the lower base, the angle being not less than 40 degrees and not more than 85 degrees.

In the heating plate according to the fifth embodiment of the present invention, the thin conductive wire may have a dark color layer at a position facing a side opposed to the glass plate located on the side of the joint layer in contact with the thin conductive wire. In this case, the dark color layer may be made of chrome oxide.

A conductive pattern sheet according to the fifth embodiment of the present is: a conductive pattern sheet having a conductive pattern to be disposed between a pair of glass plates, comprising:

a sheet-like substrate including a pair of opposed surfaces; wherein:

the conductive pattern is provided at least any of the pair of opposed surfaces of the substrate;

the conductive pattern includes thin conductive wires arranged in a pattern; and

the thin conductive wire is formed such that a line width thereof narrows as a certain point in the thin conductive wire moves away outward from the substrate along a normal direction to a sheet plane of the substrate.

According to the fifth embodiment of the present invention, it is possible to restrain bubbles from remaining in a heating plate.

FIG. 1is a perspective view for explaining a first embodiment according to the present invention, schematically showing a vehicle including a heating plate. In particular,FIG. 1schematically shows, as an example of the vehicle, an automobile including the heating plate.

FIG. 2is a view of the heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.

FIG. 3is a cross-sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 2.

FIG. 4is a plan view showing an example of a shape of a reference pattern which is referred to for determining a conductive pattern of the heating plate.

FIG. 5is an enlarged view showing a part of the conductive pattern together with the reference pattern shown inFIG. 4.

FIG. 6is a view for explaining an operation of the conductive pattern in the first embodiment.

FIG. 7is a view for explaining an example of a manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 8is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 9is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 10is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 11is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 12is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 13is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 14is a view for explaining a modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 15is a view for explaining the modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 16is a view for explaining the modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 17is a view for explaining the modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 18is a view for explaining the modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 19is a view for explaining another modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 20is a view for explaining the other modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 21is a plan view showing a modification example of the reference pattern.

FIG. 22is an enlarged view showing a part of the conductive pattern together with the reference pattern shown inFIG. 21.

FIG. 23is a view for explaining a conventional technique.

FIG. 24is a view for explaining a second embodiment according to the present invention, showing the heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.

FIG. 25is a cross-sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 2.

FIG. 26is a plan view showing an example of a pattern shape of the conductive pattern of the heating plate.

FIG. 27is a plan view showing another example of the pattern shape of the conductive pattern of the heating plate.

FIG. 28is an enlarged view showing a part of the conductive pattern ofFIG. 27.

FIG. 29is a sectional view showing a sectional shape of a thin conductive wire of the conductive pattern.

FIG. 30is a view for explaining an example of a manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 31is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 32is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 33is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 34is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 35is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 36is a view for explaining a modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 37is a view for explaining the modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 38is a view for explaining the modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 39is a view for explaining the modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 40is a view for explaining the modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 41is a view for explaining another modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 42is a view for explaining another modification example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 43is a view for explaining a third embodiment according to the present invention, showing the heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.

FIG. 44is a cross-sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 43.

FIG. 45is a view showing conditions of respective members constituting the heating plate ofFIG. 44before the respective members are laminated.

FIG. 46is a plan view showing an example of the conductive pattern.

FIG. 47is a sectional view corresponding to an A-A line ofFIG. 46, showing an example of a sectional shape of the thin conductive wire.

FIG. 48is a sectional view corresponding to the A-A line ofFIG. 46, showing another example of a sectional shape of the thin conductive wire.

FIG. 49is a view for explaining an example of a manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 50is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 51is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 52is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 53is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 54is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 55is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 56is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 57is a view for explaining a fourth embodiment according to the present invention, showing the heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.

FIG. 58is a cross-sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 57.

FIG. 59is a view showing conditions of respective members constituting the heating plate ofFIG. 58before the respective members are laminated.

FIG. 60is a plan view showing an example of the conductive pattern.

FIG. 61is a sectional view corresponding to an A-A line ofFIG. 60, showing an example of a sectional shape of the thin conductive wire.

FIG. 62is a sectional view corresponding to the A-A line ofFIG. 60, showing another example of a sectional shape of the thin conductive wire.

FIG. 63is a view for explaining an example of a manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 64is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 65is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 66is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 67is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 68is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 69is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 70is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 71is a view for explaining a fifth embodiment according to the present invention, showing the heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.

FIG. 72is a cross-sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 71.

FIG. 73is a view showing conditions of respective members constituting the heating plate ofFIG. 72before the respective members are laminated.

FIG. 74is a plan view showing an example of the conductive pattern.

FIG. 75is a sectional view corresponding to an A-A line ofFIG. 74, showing a sectional shape of the thin conductive wire.

FIG. 76Ais an enlarged view of the sectional shape of the thin conductive wire shown inFIG. 75.

FIG. 76Bis an enlarged view of the sectional shape of the thin conductive wire.

FIG. 77is a view for explaining an example of a manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 78is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 79is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 80is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 81is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 82is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 83is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 84is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 85is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 86is a view for explaining the example of the manufacturing method of the heating plate.

FIG. 87is a view for explaining a modification example of the heating plate in the fifth embodiment according to the present invention.

FIG. 88is a view for explaining another modification example of the heating plate in the fifth embodiment according to the present invention.

A plurality of embodiments of the present invention will be described herebelow with reference to the drawings. In the drawings attached to the specification, a scale size, an aspect ratio and so on are changed and exaggerated from the actual ones, for the convenience of easiness in illustration and understanding. In addition, structures and features of the embodiments described below can be suitably combined.

In this specification, the terms “plate”, “sheet” and “film” are not differentiated from one another, based only on the difference of terms. For example, a “conductive pattern sheet” is a concept including a member that can be referred to as plate and film, and is not differentiated from a member referred to as “conductive pattern plate (substrate)” or “conductive pattern film” based only on the difference of terms.

In addition, the term “sheet plane (plate plane, film plane)” means a plane corresponding to a planar direction of a sheet-like (plate-like, film-like) member as a target that is seen as a whole in general.

In this specification, the term “joint” includes not only a “complete joint” where joint is perfectly completed but also a so-called “provisional joint” for provisional joint before the “complete joint”.

Further, in this specification, terms specifying shapes, geometric conditions and their degrees, e.g., “parallel”, “perpendicular”, “same”, etc., are not limited to their strict definitions, but construed to include a range with a view to obtaining the similar function.

FIGS. 1 to 22are views for explaining a first embodiment according to the present invention.FIG. 1is a view schematically showing an automobile including a heating plate.FIG. 2is a view of the heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 3is a cross sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 2. The heating plate in this embodiment is sometimes referred to as “laminated glass”.

As shown inFIG. 1, anautomobile1as an example of a vehicle includes panes such as a front window, a rear window and side windows. Herein, a front window5is formed of aheating plate10by way of example. In addition, theautomobile1includes apower source7such as a battery.Heating plates110,210,310and410according to the other embodiments described below can be applied to the automobile ofFIG. 1.

FIG. 2shows theheating plate10viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof. In addition,FIG. 3shows a cross-sectional view corresponding to a line III-III of theheating plate10ofFIG. 2. In the example shown inFIG. 3, theheating plate10includes a pair ofglass plates11,12, a conductive pattern sheet (pattern sheet)20disposed between the pair ofglass plates11,12, a joint layer13(connecting layer13) that joins (connects) theglass plate11and theconductive pattern sheet20, and ajoint layer14that joins theglass plate12and theconductive pattern sheet20. In the example shown inFIGS. 1 and 2, theheating plate10is curved. However,FIG. 3andFIGS. 13 to 20planarly show theheating plate10and theglass plates11,12, for simplifying the illustration and facilitating the understanding.

Theconductive pattern sheet20includes a sheet-like substrate30, aconductive pattern40formed on thesubstrate30, awiring part15for powering theconductive pattern40, and aconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern40and thewiring part15.

In the example shown inFIGS. 2 and 3, theconductive pattern40is powered by thepower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so that theconductive pattern40generates heat by means of resistance heat. The heat generated by theconductive pattern40is transmitted to theglass plates11,12through thejoint layers13,14, so that theglass plates11,12are warmed up. Thus, dew drops on theglass plates11,12can be removed so that theglass plates11,12can be defogged. When there is snow or ice on theglass plates11,12, the snow or ice can be unfrozen. Thus, an excellent field of view of a passenger can be ensured.

Particularly when used as a front window of an automobile, theglass plate11,12preferably has a high visible light transmittance, in order not to hinder a field of view of a passenger. A material of such aglass plate11,12may be soda lime glass, blue plate glass (float glass) and so on, for example. Theglass plate11,12preferably has a transmittance of 90% or more in a visible light area. The visible light transmittance of theglass plate11,12is specified as follows. Transmittance of light with measurement wavelength range of from 380 nm to 780 nm is measured by using a spectrophotometer (manufactured by Shimadzu Corporation, “UV-3100PC”, compliant with JIS K 0115). The visible light transmittance is an average value of the transmittances at the respective wavelengths. The visible light transmittance may be lowered by partially or totally coloring theglass plate11,12, for example. In this case, direct sunlight can be shielded and an inside of the automobile is less visible from outside.

In addition, theglass plate11,12preferably has a thickness of not less than 1 mm and not more than 5 mm. With such a thickness, theglass plate11,12excellent in strength and optical properties can be obtained.

Theglass plates11,12and theconductive pattern sheet20are joined to each other through thejoint layers13,14, respectively. As such ajoint layer13,14, a layer made of a material having various adhesion properties or gluing (pressure sensitive adhesive) properties can be employed. In addition, thejoint layer13,14preferably has a high visible light transmittance. A typical joint layer may be a layer made of polyvinyl butyral (PVB), for example. Thejoint layer13,14preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.15 mm and not more than 0.7 mm.

Not limited to the illustrated example, theheating plate10may be provided with another function layer for exerting a specific function. In addition, one function layer may exert two or more functions. Alternatively, for example, a function may be given to at least one of theglass plate11,12of theheating plate10, thejoint layer13,14thereof, and thesubstrate30of theconductive pattern sheet20thereof, which is described later. The function that can be given toheating plate10may be an antireflection (AR) function, a hard coat (HC) function having an abrasion resistance, an infrared ray shield (reflection) function, an ultraviolet ray shield (reflection) function, a polarizing function, an antifouling function and so on, for example.

Next, theconductive pattern sheet20is described. Theconductive pattern sheet20includes the sheet-like substrate30, theconductive pattern40disposed on thesubstrate30, thewiring part15for powering theconductive pattern40, and theconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern40and thewiring part15. Theconductive pattern40is formed by arranging thin conductive wires made of metal or the like in a predetermined pattern. Theconductive pattern sheet20may have a planar dimension substantially the same as that of theglass plate11,12so as to be placed all over theheating plate10. Alternatively, theconductive pattern sheet20may be placed over only a part of theheating plate10, such as a part in front of a driver's seat.

The sheet-like substrate30functions as a substrate that supports theconductive pattern40. Thesubstrate30is an electrically insulating substrate that transmits light of a wavelength (380 nm to 780 nm) of a visible light wavelength band, which is generally recognized as transparent.

Although any resin transmitting visible light can be used as a resin to be contained in thesubstrate30, a thermoplastic resin may be preferably used. The thermoplastic resin may be an acryl resin made of, e.g., polymethyl methacrylate, a polyester resin made of, e.g., polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene terephthalate or amorphous polyethylene terephthalate (A-PET), a polyethylene resin, a polyolefin resin made of, e.g., polypropylene, a cellulose-based resin made of, e.g., triacetyl cellulose (cellulose triacetate), a polystyrene or polycarbonate resin, an AS resin and so on, for example. In particular, an acryl resin and a polyvinyl chloride are preferred because of their excellent etching resistance, weather resistance and light resistance.

In addition, in consideration of support property and light transmission of theconductive pattern40, thesubstrate30preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.03 mm and not more than 0.3 mm.

Theconductive pattern40is described with reference toFIGS. 4 to 6. Theconductive pattern40is powered by thepower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so as to generate heat by means of resistance heat. The heat is transmitted to theglass plates11,12through thejoint layers13,14, so that theglass plates11,12are warmed up.

A first feature of theconductive pattern40in this embodiment is a shape typically shown in the plan view ofFIG. 5. Theconductive pattern40includes a plurality ofconnection elements44that extend between twobranch points42to define a number ofopening areas43. Such openingareas43have random shapes and are arranged at random pitches. Typically, the openingareas43have shapes which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity), and are arranged at pitches which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity). A second feature of theconductive pattern40in this embodiment resides in that a rate of a sum of lengths of straight line segments of theconnection elements44connecting the twobranch points42, relative to a sum of lengths of theconnection elements44over the whole area of theconductive pattern40, is less than 20%. Herebelow, this fact can also be expressed that “a rate of the connection elements, which are straight line segments connecting the two branch points, relative to the plurality of connection elements, is less than 20%”.

Theconductive pattern40having the above two features is typically formed by determining areference pattern50formed of a plurality ofling segments54that extend between twobranch points52to define openingareas53, then determining positions of the branch points42of theconductive pattern40based on the branch points52of thereference pattern50, and thereafter by determining positions of theconnection elements44of theconductive pattern40based on the determined branch points42of theconductive pattern40and theline segments54of thereference pattern50.

FIG. 4is a plan view showing thereference pattern50. As shown inFIG. 4, thereference pattern50is a mesh-like pattern defining a number of theopening areas53. Thereference pattern50includes a plurality of theline segments54that extend between the twobranch points52to define theopening areas53. Namely, thereference pattern50is an aggregation of a number of theline segments54each forming the branch points52at both ends thereof.

In the example shown inFIG. 4, a number of the openingareas53of thereference pattern50have shapes which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity) and are arranged at pitches which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity). Particularly in the illustrated example, the openingareas53are arranged so as to correspond to respective Voronoi areas in a Voronoi diagram obtained from generatrix points whose position coordinates in a plane have a predetermined random distribution. These randomly distributed generatrix points have a feature in which a distance between two adjacent generatrix points is distributed between a predetermined upper limit value and a predetermined lower limit value. In other words, therespective line segments54of thereference pattern50correspond to respective boundaries of the Voronoi areas in such a Voronoi diagram. In addition, the respective branch points52of thereference pattern50correspond to Voronoi points in the Voronoi diagram.

Since the Voronoi diagram can be obtained by the known methods disclosed in JP2012-178556A, JP2011-216378A and JP2012-151116A, for example, detailed description of the method of creating the Voronoi diagram is omitted herein.

FIG. 5shows, in enlargement, a part of theconductive pattern40together with thereference pattern50shown inFIG. 4. Firstly, the respective branch points42of theconductive pattern40are disposed on the respective branch points52of thereference pattern50. Then, therespective connection elements44of theconductive pattern40are disposed so as to connect the twobranch points42corresponding to the twobranch points52forming both ends of theline segments54of thereference pattern50. Eachconnection element44may be formed to have a linear shape (straight line segment), a curved shape or a shape formed by combining these shapes. For example, eachconnection element44may be formed to have a linear shape (straight line segment), an arcuate shape, a polygonal line shape, a corrugated shape and so on. A rate of theconnection elements44which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44, is less than 20%. Namely, 80% or more of theconnection elements44have a shape other than a linear shape (straight line segment), such as an arcuate shape, a polygonal line shape, a corrugated shape and so on.

In the example shown inFIG. 5, theconductive pattern40includes a plurality the branch points42arranged on the respective branch points52of thereference pattern50, and a plurality of theconnection elements44that extend between the twobranch points42to define theopening areas43. A rate of theconnection elements44, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44, is less than 20%. Theconductive pattern40has a mesh-like pattern in which the plurality ofconnection elements44are arranged correspondingly to therespective line segments54of thereference pattern50.

It is not necessary to specify a rate of theconnection elements44, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44, by checking all the area of theconductive pattern40and calculating the rate. Actually, it is possible to check the suitable number of elements to be checked in consideration of dispersion degree of elements, in a certain section having a planar dimension (an area) that is considered to be capable of reflecting a general tendency of a rate of the connection elements, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44, and calculate the rate. A value which was thus specified can be handled as a rate of theconnection elements44, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44. In theconductive pattern40in this embodiment, by observing 100 points included in an area of 300 mm×300 mm by means of an optical microscope or an electron microscope, a rate of theconnection elements44, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44can be specified.

The material for constituting such aconductive pattern40may be selected from one or more of gold, silver, copper, platinum, aluminum, chrome, molybdenum, nickel, titanium, palladium, indium, tungsten and an alloy thereof, for example.

In the example shown inFIG. 3, theconnection element44has asurface44aon the side of thesubstrate30, asurface44bon the side opposed to thesubstrate30, and side surfaces44cand44d. Theconnection element44has substantially a rectangular section in general. A width W of theconnection element44, i.e., the width W along the sheet plane of thesubstrate30is preferably not less than 1 μm and not more than 15 μm. Since theconnection element44having such a width W is sufficiently thin, theconductive pattern40can be effectively made invisible. In addition, a height (thickness) H of theconnection element44, i.e., the height (thickness) H along the normal direction to the sheet plane of thesubstrate30is preferably not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm. Further, the height H of theconnection element44is more preferably not less than 2 μm and not more than 20 μm. The height (thickness) of theconnection element44can be said as a height (thickness) of theconductive pattern40. Due to theconnection element44having such a thickness (height) H, a sufficient conductivity can be ensured while a suitable resistance value is provided.

According to the above-describedconductive pattern40, as shown inFIG. 6, light incident on the side surface of theconnection element44having a shape other than a linear shape (straight line segment), such as an arcuate shape, a polygonal line shape, a corrugated shape and so on, is reflected irregularly on the side surface. Thus, it can be restrained that the light incident on the side surface of theconnection element44from a certain direction is reflected on the side surface in a certain direction correspondingly to the incident direction. Thus, it can be restrained that the reflected light is visible to an observer, so that theconductive pattern40having theconnection elements44is visible to the observer. In particular, a rate of theconnection elements44, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44, is less than 20%. That is to say, 80% or more of the plurality ofconnection elements44have a shape other than a linear shape (straight line segment), such as an arcuate shape, a polygonal line shape, a corrugated shape and so on. In this case, it can be more effectively restrained that light reflected on the side surface of theconnection element44is visible to an observer, so that theconductive pattern40having theconnection elements44is visible to the observer.

In addition, when theconnection element44has the height (thickness) H of not less than 1 μm, in particular, when theconnection element44has the height H of not less than 2 μm, the light reflected on the side surface of theconnection element44is more likely to be visible to an observer. Thus, in this case, in order to restrain that the light reflected on the side surface of theconnection element44is visible to the observer, it is particularly effective that a rate of theconnection elements44, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44, is made to be less than 20%.

Further, when a distribution of the openingareas43is sparse so that an average length Davebetween centers of gravity between the twoadjacent opening areas43is longer, the length of eachconnection element44is also longer. When the length of eachconnection element44is longer, light reflected on the side surface of theconnection element44in a certain direction is more visible. According to the research of the present inventors, when the average distance Davebetween the centers of gravity between the twoadjacent opening areas43is 80 μm or more, light reflected on the side surface of theconnection element44tends to be visible to an observer. The average distance Davemay be 70 μm or more. Thus, in this case, in order to restrain that the light reflected on the side surface of theconnection element44is visible to the observer, it is particularly effective that a rate of theconnection elements44, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44, is made to be less than 20%. The twoadjacent opening areas43mean twoadjacent opening areas43which share oneconnection element44. In addition, the distance D between centers of gravity G1, G2means a linear distance between the centers of gravity G1, G2.

The average distance Davebetween the centers of gravity between the twoadjacent opening areas43is preferably 300 μm or less. When the average distance Davebetween the centers of gravity between the twoadjacent opening areas43is not less than 80 μm and not more than 300 μm, a line width of the connection element (thin conductive wire)44can be sufficiently thinned so as to be invisible, and calorific values at respective positions of theconductive pattern40can be sufficiently made uniform.

In the example shown inFIG. 3, theconnection element44includes a firstdark color layer63disposed on thesubstrate30, aconductive metal layer61disposed on the firstdark color layer63, and a seconddark color layer64disposed on theconductive metal layer61. In other words, the surface of theconductive metal layer61, which is located on the side of thesubstrate30, is covered with the firstdark color layer63, and the surface of theconductive metal layer61, which is located on the side opposed to thesubstrate30, and both the side surfaces thereof are covered with the seconddark color layer64. Thedark color layer63,64may be a layer having a visible light reflectance lower than that of theconductive metal layer61. For example, thedark color layer63,64is a layer of a dark color such as black color. Owing to the dark color layers63,64, theconductive meal layer61can be more invisible, whereby a field of view of a passenger can be more suitably ensured.

Next, an example of a manufacturing method of theheating plate10is described with reference toFIGS. 7 to 13.FIGS. 7 to 13are sectional views showing the example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate10in sequence.

Firstly, the sheet-like substrate30is prepared. Thesubstrate30is an electrically insulating resin substrate that transmits light of a wavelength (380 nm to 780 nm) of a visible light wavelength band, which is generally recognized as transparent.

Then, as shown inFIG. 7, the firstdark color layer63is disposed on thesubstrate30. For example, the firstdark color layer63can be disposed on thesubstrate30by a plating method including electrolytic plating and electroless plating, a spattering method, a CVD method, a PVD method, an ion plating method or a combination method of the two or more methods. Various known materials may be used as material of the firstdark color layer63. For example, the material may be copper nitride, copper oxide, nickel nitride and so on.

Next, as shown inFIG. 8, the conductive metal layer (conductive layer)61is disposed on the firstdark color layer63. As described above, theconductive metal layer61is a layer made of one or more of gold, silver, copper, platinum, aluminum, chrome, molybdenum, nickel, titanium, palladium, indium, tungsten and an alloy thereof. Theconductive metal layer61may be formed by a known method. For example, there is employed a method of adhering a metal foil such as a copper foil by means of a weather-resistant adhesive or the like, a plating method including electrolytic plating and electroless plating, a spattering method, a CVD method, a PVD method, an ion plating method or a combination method of the two or more methods.

When theconductive metal layer61is formed of a metal foil such as a copper foil, the following method may be employed. Namely, thefirst color layer63is formed previously on one surface of the metal foil in advance. Then, the metal foil with the firstdark color layer63is laminated on thesubstrate30through an adhesive layer or a gluing layer (pressure sensitive adhesive layer), such that thefirst color layer63faces thesubstrate30. In this case, the firstdark color layer63may be formed as follows. By subjecting a part of a material constituting the metal foil to a darkening treatment (blackening treatment), the firstdark color layer63made of metallic oxide or metallic sulfide can be formed from the part constituting the metal foil. Alternatively, the firstdark color layer63as a coating film made of a dark color material or a plated layer made of nickel or chrome may be disposed on a surface of the metal foil. In addition, the surface of the metal foil may be roughened, and the firstdark color layer63may be disposed thereon.

Then, as shown inFIG. 9, a resistpattern62is disposed on theconductive metal layer61. The resistpattern62is a pattern that corresponds to a pattern of theconductive pattern40to be formed. In the method described herein, the resistpattern62is disposed only on a portion where theconductive pattern40is finally to be formed. The resistpattern62may be formed by a pattering method using a known photolithographic technique.

Then, as shown inFIG. 10, theconductive metal layer61and the firstdark color layer63are etched with the resistpattern62serving as a mask. Due to this etching process, theconductive metal layer61and thefirst color layer63can be patterned substantially similar to the resistpattern62. The etching method is not particularly limited, and a known method may be employed. The known method may be a wet etching method using etchant, a plasma etching method and so on. Thereafter, as shown inFIG. 11, the resistpattern62is removed.

After that, as shown inFIG. 12, the seconddark color layer64is formed on thesurface44bof theconductive metal layer61on the side opposed to thesubstrate30and the side surfaces44c,44d. The seconddark color layer64may be formed as follows. By subjecting a part of a material constituting theconductive metal layer61to a darkening treatment (blackening treatment), the seconddark color layer64made of metallic oxide or metallic sulfide can be formed from the part constituting theconductive metal layer61. Alternatively, the seconddark color layer64as a coating film made of a dark color material or a plated layer made of nickel or chrome may be disposed on a surface of the metal foil. In addition, the surface of theconductive metal layer61may be roughened, and the seconddark color layer64may be disposed thereon.

In the manner as described above, theconductive pattern sheet20shown inFIG. 12is manufactured.

Finally, theglass plate11, thejoint layer13, theconductive pattern sheet20, thejoint layer14and theglass plate12are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized. In the example shown inFIG. 13, firstly, thejoint layer13is provisionally attached to theglass plate11, and thejoint layer14is provisionally attached to theglass plate12. Then, theglass plate11to which thejoint layer13has been provisionally attached, theconductive pattern sheet20, theglass plate12to which thejoint layer14has been provisionally attached, are superposed in this order and heated/pressurized, in such a manner that the side of theglass plate11, to which thejoint layer13has been provisionally attached, and the side of theglass plate12, to which thejoint layer14has been provisionally attached, face theconductive pattern sheet20. Thus, theglass plate11, theconductive pattern sheet20and theglass plate12are joined through thejoint layers13,14, so that theheating plate10shown inFIG. 3is manufactured.

Theaforementioned heating plate10in the first embodiment includes the pair ofglass plates11,12, theconductive pattern40disposed between the pair ofglass plates11,12and defining the plurality of openingareas43, and thejoint layers13,14disposed between theconductive pattern40and at least one of the pair ofglass plates11,12. Theconductive pattern40includes the plurality ofconnection elements44that extend between the twobranch points42to define theopening areas43. A rate of theconnection elements44, which are straight line segments connecting the twobranch points42, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements44, is less than 20%.

According to such aheating plate10, as shown inFIG. 6, light incident on the side surface of theconnection element44having a shape other than a linear shape (straight line segment), such as an arcuate shape, a polygonal line shape, a corrugated shape and so on, is reflected irregularly on the side surface. Thus, it can be restrained that the light incident on the side surface of theconnection element44from a certain direction is reflected on the side surface in a certain direction correspondingly to the incident direction. Thus, it can be restrained that the reflected light is visible to an observer, so that theconductive pattern40having theconnection elements44is visible to the observer.

The above first embodiment can be variously modified. Modification examples are described herebelow with reference suitably to the drawings. In the below description and the drawings for the description, a component that can be similarly made as the above embodiment is shown by the same symbol as a component corresponding to the above embodiment, and overlapped description is omitted.

A modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate10is described with reference toFIGS. 14 to 18.FIGS. 14 to 18are sectional views showing the modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate10in sequence.

Firstly, theconductive pattern sheet20is manufactured. Theconductive pattern sheet20may be manufactured by the method as described above in the example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate10.

Then, theglass plate11, thejoint layer13and theconductive pattern sheet20are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized. In the example shown inFIG. 14, thejoint layer13is provisionally attached to theglass plate11firstly. Then, theglass plate11to which thejoint layer13has been provisionally attached is superposed from the side of theconductive pattern40of theconductive pattern sheet20and heated/pressurized, in such a manner that the side of theglass plate11, to which thejoint layer13has been provisionally attached, faces theconductive pattern sheet20. Thus, as shown inFIG. 15, theglass plate11and theconductive pattern sheet20are joined (provisionally joined or completely joined) through thejoint layer13.

Then, as shown inFIG. 16, thesubstrate30of theconductive pattern sheet20is removed. For example, during the manufacture of theconductive pattern sheet20, a peeling layer is formed on thesubstrate30, and theconductive pattern40is formed on the peeling layer. Preferably, the peeling layer is not removed in the step in which theconductive metal layer61and the firstdark color layer63are etched. In this case, thesubstrate30is joined to theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13through the peeling layer. In the step in which thesubstrate30is removed from theconductive pattern sheet20, thesubstrate30of theconductive pattern sheet20is peeled from theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13by means of the peeling layer.

The peeling layer may be, for example, a peeling layer of an interface peeling type, a peeling layer of an interlayer peeling type, a peeling layer of a cohesion peeling type and so on. As a peeling layer of an interface peeling type, there may be suitably used a peeling layer having relatively a lower adhesive property to theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13, than an adhesive property to thesubstrate30. Such a layer may be a silicone resin layer, a fluororesin layer, a polyolefin resin layer and so on. In addition, it is possible to use a peeling layer having relatively a lower adhesive property to thesubstrate30, than an adhesive property to theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13. A peeling layer of an interlayer peeling type may be, for example, a peeling layer including a plurality of film layers, and having relatively a lower adhesive property between the plurality of layers, than an adhesive property to theconductive pattern40, thejoint layer13and thesubstrate30. A peeling layer of a cohesion peeling type may be, for example, a peeling layer formed by dispersing fillers as a dispersal phase in a base resin as a continuous phase.

When a peeling layer of an interface peeling type including a layer having relatively a lower adhesive property to theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13, than an adhesive property to thesubstrate30, is used, a peeling phenomenon occurs between the peeling layer, and theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13. In this case, it is possible to make the peeling layer not remain on theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13. Namely, thesubstrate30is removed together with the peeling layer. When thesubstrate30and the peeling layer are removed in this manner, thejoint layer13is exposed into the openingareas43of theconductive pattern40.

On the other hand, when a peeling layer of an interface peeling type having relatively a lower adhesive property to thesubstrate30, than an adhesive property to theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13, is used, a peeling phenomenon occurs between the peeling layer and thesubstrate30. When a peeling layer of an interlayer peeling type including a plurality of film layers, and having relatively a lower adhesive property between the plurality of layers, than an adhesive property to theconductive pattern40, thejoint layer13and thesubstrate30, is used, a peeling phenomenon occurs between the plurality of layers. When a peeling layer of a cohesion peeling type, which is formed by dispersing fillers as a dispersal phase in a base resin as a continuous phase, is used, a peeling phenomenon occurs in the peeling layer by cohesion failure.

Finally, theglass plate11, thejoint layer13and theconductive pattern40, thejoint layer14, and theglass plate12are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized. In the example shown inFIG. 17, thejoint layer14is attached to theglass plate12firstly. Then, theglass plate11, theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13, and theglass plate12to which thejoint layer14has been provisionally attached are superposed in this order and heated/pressurized, in such a manner that the side of theglass plate12, to which thejoint layer14has been provisionally attached, faces theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13. Thus, theglass plate11, theconductive pattern40, theglass plate12are joined (completely joined) through thejoint layers13,14, whereby theheating plate10shown inFIG. 18is manufactured.

According to theheating plate10shown inFIG. 18, theheating plate10can be free ofsubstrate30. Thus, the thickness of theheating plate10as a whole can be reduced. In addition, the number of boundary faces in theheating plate10can be reduced. Thus, deterioration of optical properties, i.e., deterioration of visibility can be restrained.

Next, another modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate10is described with reference toFIGS. 19 and 20.FIGS. 19 and 20are sectional views showing the other modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate10in sequence.

Firstly, by the same steps as those of the above modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate10, theglass plate11and theconductive pattern sheet20are joined (provisionally joined) through thejoint layer13. Then, thesubstrate30is removed therefrom. Namely, the laminate ofglass plate11, theconductive pattern40and thejoint layer13is obtained, which is described in the above modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate10with reference toFIG. 16.

Then, as shown inFIG. 19, theglass plate11, thejoint layer13and theconductive pattern40, and theglass plate12are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized. Thus, theglass plate11and theconductive pattern40are joined (completely joined) through thejoint layer13, and theglass plate11and theglass plate12are joined (completely joined) through thejoint layer13. Thus, theheating plate10shown inFIG. 20is manufactured.

According to theheating plate10shown inFIG. 20, theheating plate10can be free of thesubstrate30and thejoint layer14. Thus, the thickness of theheating plate10as a whole can be further reduced. In addition, the number of boundary faces in theheating plate10can be further reduced. Thus, deterioration of optical properties, i.e., deterioration of visibility can be furthermore effectively restrained. Moreover, since theconductive pattern40and theglass plate12are in contact with each other, a heating efficiency of theglass plate12by theconductive pattern40can be increased.

As another modification example,FIG. 21shows a modification example of the reference pattern. As shown inFIG. 21, areference pattern80is a mesh-like pattern defining a number ofopening areas83. Thereference pattern80includes a plurality ofline segments84that extend between twobranch points82to define theopening areas83. Namely, thereference pattern80is an aggregation of a number of theline segments84each forming the branch points82at both ends thereof. Particularly in the illustrated example, thereference pattern80has a shape obtained by elongating thereference pattern50shown inFIG. 4along a first direction (X). In other words, thereference pattern80has a shape obtained by compressing thereference pattern50shown inFIG. 4along a second direction (Y) perpendicular to the first direction (X).

A part of aconductive pattern70, which is determined by the method described above with reference toFIG. 5, based on thereference pattern80is shown in enlargement inFIG. 22together with a corresponding part of thereference pattern80. In the example shown inFIG. 22, theconductive pattern70includes a plurality of branch points72arranged on the respective branch points82of thereference pattern80, and a plurality ofconnection elements74that extend between the two branch points72to define openingareas73. A rate of theconnection elements74, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the two branch points72, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements74, is less than 20%. Theconductive pattern70has a mesh-like pattern on which the plurality ofconnection elements74are arranged correspondingly to therespective line segments84of thereference pattern80.

In the example shown inFIG. 22, an average of ratio (L1/L2) of a length L1of each openingarea73of theconductive pattern70along the first direction (X), relative to a length L2of theopening area73along the second direction (Y) perpendicular to the first direction (X), is not less than 1.3 and not more than 1.8. When theconductive pattern70includes theopening area73of such a dimension, light reflected on the side surface of theconnection element74is more likely to be visible to an observer. Thus, in this case, in order to restrain that the light reflected on the side surface of theconnection element74is visible to the observer, it is particularly effective that a rate of the connection elements, which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the two branch points72, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements74is made to be less than 20%.

It is not necessary to specify the respective dimensions of theconductive pattern40,70, such as an average distance Davebetween centers of gravity of the twoadjacent opening areas43, and an average of ratio (L1/L2) of a length L1of each openingarea73of theconductive pattern70along the first direction (X) relative to a length L2of theopening area73along the second direction (Y) perpendicular to the first direction (X), by checking all the areas of theconductive pattern40,70and calculating average values. Actually, it is possible to check the suitable number of elements to be checked (an average distance Davebetween centers of gravity of the twoadjacent opening areas43, and an average of ratio (L1/L2) of a length L1of each openingarea73of theconductive pattern70along the first direction (X) relative to a length L2of theopening area73along the second direction (Y) perpendicular to the first direction (X)) in consideration of dispersion degree of elements to be checked, in a certain section having a planar dimension (an area) that is considered to be capable of reflecting a general tendency of the elements to be checked, and calculate average values. Values which were thus specified can be handled as an average distance Davebetween centers of gravity of the twoadjacent opening areas43, and an average of ratio (L1/L2) of a length L1of each openingarea73of theconductive pattern70along the first direction (X) relative to a length L2of theopening area73along the second direction (Y) perpendicular to the first direction (X). In theconductive pattern40,70in this embodiment, by observing 100 points included in an area of 300 mm×300 mm by means of an optical microscope or an electron microscope, and calculating average values, respective dimensions of theconductive pattern40,70can be specified.

As an anther modification example, in the above-described first embodiment, theconductive pattern40,70has a pattern determined based on the Voronoi diagram, i.e., a number of the openingareas53,83which have shapes which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity) and are arranged at pitches which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity). However, not limited to this pattern, there may be used, as the conductive pattern, various patterns such as a pattern in which triangular, rectangular, or hexagonal opening areas of the same shape are regularly arranged, a pattern in which opening areas of different shapes are regularly arranged, and so on.

In addition, in the example shown inFIGS. 7 to 20, the seconddark color layer64provides thesurface44bof theconnection element44, which is opposed to thesubstrate30, and the side surfaces44c,44dthereof. However, not limited thereto, the seconddark color layer64may provide only thesurface44bof theconnection element44, which is opposed to thesubstrate30, or the side surfaces44c,44dthereof. When the seconddark color layer64provides only thesurface44bof theconnection element44, which is opposed to thesubstrate30, the seconddark color layer64and the resistpattern62are disposed in this order on the conductive metal layer (conductive layer)61, after the step shown inFIG. 8, for example. Thereafter, the seconddark color layer64, theconductive metal layer61and the firstdark color layer63may be etched with the resistpattern62serving as a mask. Alternatively, when the seconddark color layer64provides only the side surfaces44c,44dof theconnection element44, the seconddark color layer64is formed without removing the resistpattern62, after the step shown inFIG. 10, for example, and thereafter the resistpattern62is removed. When the firstdark color layer63is not necessary, the step of disposing the firstdark color layer63on thesubstrate30, which is shown inFIG. 7, may be omitted.

Theheating plate10may be used in a rear window, a side window and a sun roof of theautomobile1. In addition, theheating plate10may be used in a window of a vehicle other than an automobile, such as a railway (train), an aircraft, a vessel, a space vessel and so on.

Further, in addition to a vehicle, theheating plate10may be used in a part by which an inside and an outside is partitioned, such as a window of a building, a store and a house.

Although some modification examples of the above first embodiment are described, the modification examples can be naturally combined with one another for application.

FIG. 1andFIGS. 24 to 42are views for explaining a second embodiment according to the present invention. In the second embodiment described below, a component corresponding to that of the first embodiment is shown by a symbol in100swith the same last two digits, and overlapped description is omitted.

FIG. 24is a view of a heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 25is a sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 24. The heating plate in this embodiment is sometimes referred to as “laminated glass”.

FIG. 24shows aheating plate110when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 25is a cross-sectional view corresponding to a XXV-XXV line of theheating plate110ofFIG. 24. In the example shown inFIG. 25, theheating plate110includes a pair ofglass plates111,112, a conductive pattern sheet (pattern sheet)120disposed between the pair ofglass plates111,112, ajoint layer113that joins theglass plate111and theconductive pattern sheet120, and ajoint layer114that joins theglass plate112and theconductive pattern sheet120. In the example shown inFIGS. 1 and 24, theheating plate110is curved. However,FIGS. 25 and 35 to 42planarly show theheating plate110and theglass plates111,112, for simplifying the illustration and facilitating the understanding.

Theconductive pattern sheet120includes a sheet-like substrate130, aholding layer131laminated on thesubstrate130, a conductive pattern (conductive pattern member)140formed on theholding layer131, awiring part15for powering theconductive pattern140, and aconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern140and thewiring part15.

In the example shown inFIGS. 24 and 25, theconductive pattern140is powered by apower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so that theconductive pattern140generates heat by means of resistance heat. The heat generated by theconductive pattern140is transmitted to theglass plates111,112through thejoint layers113,114, so that theglass plates111,112are warmed up. Thus, dew drops on theglass plates111,112can be removed so that theglass plates111,112can be defogged. When there is snow or ice on theglass plates111,112, the snow or ice can be unfrozen. Thus, an excellent field of view of a passenger can be ensured.

Particularly when used as a front window of an automobile, theglass plate111,112preferably has a high visible light transmittance, in order not to hinder a field of view of a passenger. A material of such aglass plate111,112may be soda lime glass, blue plate glass and so on, for example. Theglass plate111,112preferably has a transmittance of 90% or more in a visible light area. The visible light transmittance is specified as follows. The visible light transmittance of theglass plate111,112is specified as follows. Transmittance of light with measurement wavelength range of from 380 nm to 780 nm is measured by using a spectrophotometer (manufactured by Shimadzu Corporation, “UV-3100PC”, compliant with JIS K 0115). The visible light transmittance is an average value of the transmittances at the respective wavelengths. The visible light transmittance may be lowered by partially or totally coloring theglass plate111,112, for example. In this case, direct sunlight can be shielded and an inside of the automobile is less visible from outside.

In addition, theglass plate111,112preferably has a thickness of not less than 1 mm and not more than 5 mm. With such a thickness, theglass plate111,112excellent in strength and optical properties can be obtained.

Theglass plates111,112and theconductive pattern sheet120are joined to each other through thejoint layers113,114, respectively. As such ajoint layer113,114, a layer made of a material having various adhesion properties or gluing (pressure sensitive adhesive) properties. In addition, thejoint layer113,114preferably has a high visible light transmittance. A typical joint layer may be a layer made of polyvinyl butyral (PVB), for example. Thejoint layer113,114preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.15 mm and not more than 0.7 mm.

Not limited to the illustrated example, theheating plate110may be provided with another function layer for exerting a specific function. In addition, one function layer may exert two or more functions. Alternatively, for example, a function may be given to at least one of theglass plate111,112of theheating plate110, thejoint layer113,114thereof, and thesubstrate130of theconductive pattern sheet120thereof, which is described later. The function that can be given toheating plate110may be an antireflection (AR) function, a hard coat (HC) function having an abrasion resistance, an infrared ray shield (reflection) function, an ultraviolet ray shield (reflection) function, a polarizing function, an antifouling function and so on, for example.

Next, theconductive pattern sheet120is described. Theconductive pattern sheet120includes the sheet-like substrate130, theholding layer131laminated on thesubstrate130, theconductive pattern140formed on theholding layer131, thewiring part15for powering theconductive pattern140, and theconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern140and thewiring part15. Theconductive pattern sheet120may have a planar dimension (an area) substantially the same as that of theglass plate111,112so as to be placed all over theheating plate110. Alternatively, theconductive pattern sheet120may be placed over only a part of theheating plate110, such as a part in front of a driver's seat.

The sheet-like substrate130functions as a substrate that supports theholding layer131and theconductive pattern140. Thesubstrate130is an electrically insulating substrate that transmits light of a wavelength (380 nm to 780 nm) of a visible light wavelength band, which is generally recognized as transparent. In the example shown inFIGS. 24, 26 and 27, thesubstrate130has substantially the same dimensions as those of theglass plate111,112and has substantially a trapezoidal planar shape.

Any resin can be used as a resin to be contained in thesubstrate130, as long as it transmits visible light and can suitably support theholding layer131and theconductive pattern140. Preferably, a thermoplastic resin may be used. The thermoplastic resin may be an acryl resin made of, e.g., polymethyl methacrylate, a polyester resin made of, e.g., polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene terephthalate or amorphous polyethylene terephthalate (A-PET), a polyethylene resin, a polyolefin resin made of, e.g., polypropylene, a cellulose-based resin made of, e.g., triacetyl cellulose (cellulose triacetate), a polystyrene or polycarbonate resin, an AS resin and so on, for example. In particular, an acryl resin and a polyvinyl chloride are preferred because of their excellent etching resistance, weather resistance and light resistance.

In addition, in consideration of support property and light transmission of theconductive pattern140, thesubstrate130preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.03 mm and not more than 0.3 mm.

Theholding layer131has a function for improving a joint property between thesubstrate130and theconductive pattern140to hold theconductive pattern140. Theholding layer131may be formed either by laminating a transparent electrically insulating resin sheet with thesubstrate130or by coating thesubstrate130with a resin material. Theholding layer131may be made of, e.g., polyvinyl butyral (PVB), a two-pack curable urethane adhesive, or a two-pack curable epoxy adhesive. In addition, as described below, when theconductive pattern sheet120is joined (provisionally joined) to theglass plate111through thejoint layer113and then thesubstrate130is peeled, theholding layer131may include a peeling layer. A thickness of theholding layer131may be not less than 1 μm and not more than 100 μm, in consideration of a light transmission and a joint property to thesubstrate130and theconductive pattern140. Preferably, the thickness of theholding layer131may be not less than 1 μm and not more than 15 μm.

Theconductive pattern140is described with reference toFIGS. 26 to 28.FIGS. 26 and 27are plan views of theconductive pattern sheet120when viewed in a normal direction of a sheet plane thereof.FIG. 28is a view showing in enlargement a part of theconductive pattern140ofFIG. 27.

Theconductive pattern140is powered by thepower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so as to generate heat by means of resistance heat. The heat is transmitted to theglass plates111,112through thejoint layers113,114, so that theglass plates111,112are warmed up.

FIG. 26shows an example of a pattern shape of theconductive pattern140. In the example shown inFIG. 26, theconductive pattern140includes a plurality of thinconductive wires141connecting a pair of theconnection parts16. In the illustrated example, each of the plurality of thinconductive wires141extends in a corrugated pattern from the oneconnection part16to theother connection part16. The thinconductive wires141are arranged apart from one another in a direction not in parallel with a direction in which the thinconductive wires141extend. In particular, the thinconductive wires141are arranged perpendicular to the direction in which the thinconductive wires141extend. In place of the corrugated shape, each thinconductive wire141may extend between the pair ofconnection parts16in a linear pattern, a polygonal line pattern or a sine wave pattern. The thinconductive wires141, which are adjacent to each other in a direction not in parallel with the direction in which the thinconductive wires141extend, may be connected via a thin wire, i.e., a connection wire.

FIGS. 27 and 28show another example of a pattern shape of theconductive pattern140. In the example shown inFIGS. 27 and 28, the thinconductive wires141of theconductive pattern140are arranged in a mesh-like pattern defining a number ofopening areas144. Theconductive pattern140includes a plurality ofconnection elements145that extend between twobranch points143to define theopening areas144. Namely, thereference pattern140is an aggregation of a number of theconnection elements145each forming the branch points143at both ends thereof.

In the example shown inFIGS. 27 and 28, a number of the openingareas144of theconductive pattern140have shapes which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity) and are arranged at pitches which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity). Particularly in the illustrated example, the openingareas144are arranged so as to correspond to respective Voronoi areas in a Voronoi diagram obtained from generatrix points whose position coordinates in a plane have a predetermined random two-dimensional distribution. These randomly distributed generatrix points have a feature in which a distance between two adjacent generatrix points is distributed between a predetermined upper limit value and a predetermined lower limit value. In other words, therespective connection elements145of theconductive pattern140correspond to respective boundaries of the Voronoi areas in such a Voronoi diagram. In addition, the respective branch points143of theconductive pattern140correspond to Voronoi points in the Voronoi diagram. Since the Voronoi diagram can be obtained by the known methods disclosed in JP2012-178556A and JP2013-238029A, for example, a detailed description of the method of creating the Voronoi diagram is omitted herein.

When a conductive pattern has a number of opening areas that have shapes having a repeated regularity (periodic regularity), such as a tetragonal lattice arrangement or a honeycomb arrangement, and are arranged at pitches having a repeated regularity (periodic regularity), light beam stripes are sometimes visible because of the repeated regularity of the arrangement of the opening areas. These visible light beam stripes are caused when light enters a heating plate from a side opposite to an observer, e.g., when light of a headlight of an oncoming automobile enters a front window of the automobile, the light is dispersed to light beam stripes along a predetermined pattern such as a stripe pattern on the heating plate so that the light beam stripes can be seen. In particular, when a number of the opening areas of the conductive pattern have shapes having a repeated regularity and are arranged at pitches having a repeated regularity, such light beam stripes tend to be easily visible. The fact that the light beam stripes are visible to an observer such as a driver deteriorates a visibility of the observer through the pane. On the other hand, as shown inFIGS. 27 and 28, theconductive pattern140having a number of the openingareas144of theconductive pattern140have shapes which do not have a repeated regularity and are arranged at pitches which do not have a repeated regularity can effectively restrain generation of light beam stripes in theheating plate110.

In theconductive pattern140shown inFIGS. 27 and 28, an average of the number of theconnection elements145extending from onebranch point143is more than 3.0 and less than 4.0. When an average of the number of theconnection elements145extending from onebranch point143is more than 3.0 and less than 4.0, an irregular honeycomb arrangement pattern can be obtained. When an average of the number of theconnection elements145extending from onebranch point143is more than 3M and less than 4.0, the arrangement of the openingareas144can be made irregular whereby the presence of a direction in which the openingareas144are arranged with a repeated regularity (periodic regularity) can be prevented stably. As a result, generation of light beam stripes in theheating plate110can be more effectively restrained. At the same time, since theconnection elements145are arranged basically based on a honeycomb arrangement, theconnection elements145are uniformly dispersed so that non-uniform heat generation can be effectively restrained.

Strictly speaking, an average of the number ofconnection elements145extending from onebranch point143is obtained by checking the number of theconnection elements145extending from all the branch points143included in theconductive pattern140, and by calculating an average value. However, actually, considering a size of the oneopening area144defined by the thinconductive wires141, it is possible to check the branch points143the number of which is considered as suitable in consideration of dispersion degree of elements to be checked, in a certain section having a planar dimension (an area) that is considered to be capable of reflecting a general tendency of the number ofconnection elements145extending from the onebranch point143, and calculate an average value thereof. An average value which was thus specified can be handled as an average value of the number ofconnection elements145extending from onebranch point143. For example, an average value obtained by counting and calculating the number ofconnection elements145extending from the100branch points143included in an area of 300 mm×300 mm by means of an optical microscope or an electron microscope, can be handled as an average of the number of theconnection elements145extending from onebranch point143.

In theconductive pattern140shown inFIGS. 27 and 28, theconductive pattern140includes the openingareas144surrounded by the four, five, six or sevenconnection elements145. Among the openingareas144included in theconductive pattern140, the number of openingareas144surrounded by the sixconnection elements145is predominant. Namely, as to the openingareas144included in theconductive elements145, the number of openingareas144surrounded by the sixconnection elements145is larger than the number of the openingareas144surrounded by the four, five or sevenconnection elements145.

In such aconductive pattern140, the arrangement of the openingareas144is an irregular honeycomb arrangement in which the respective opening areas lack a regularity in shape and arrangement, as compared with a honeycomb arrangement in which in which hexagons of the same shape are regularly arranged. In other words, the openingareas144are arranged such that shapes and positions of the respective opening areas are random, basically based on the honeycomb arrangement. Thus, it can be restrained that the openingareas144are arranged too densely or too sparsely, whereby the openingareas144can be distributed at substantially uniform density, i.e., in a uniform manner. As a result, the heat generation non-uniformity can be effectively restrained. In addition, it is stably possible to make completely irregular the arrangement of the openingareas144, i.e., to prevent the presence of a direction in which the openingareas144are regularly arranged. Thus, generation of light beam stripes in theheating plate110can be more effectively restrained.

Strictly speaking, the number ofconnection elements145surrounding oneopening area144is obtained by checking the number ofconnection elements145surrounding all the openingareas144included in theconductive pattern140. However, actually, considering a size of the oneopening area144defined by the thinconductive wires141, it is possible to check the openingareas144the number of which is considered to be suitable in consideration of the number of dispersion degree of elements to be checked, in a certain section having a planar dimension (an area) that is considered to be capable of reflecting a general tendency of the number ofconnection elements145surrounding oneopening area144, and multiply the number of openingareas144for each number of theconnection elements145surrounding theopening area144. For example, it can be judged which number of openingareas144surrounded by the certain number ofconnection elements145included in theconductive pattern140is the largest, by using a value obtained by counting the number ofconnection elements145surrounding the100openingareas144included in an area of 300 mm×300 mm by means of an optical microscope or an electron microscope, and multiplying the number of openingareas144for each number of theconnection elements145surrounding theopening area144.

The material for constituting such aconductive pattern140may be one or more of metal such as gold, silver, copper, platinum, aluminum, chrome, molybdenum, nickel, titanium, palladium, indium, tungsten, and an alloy of metals selected from two or more kinds of these metals, such as nickel-chrome alloy, brass, bronze and so on, for example.

Next, a sectional shape of the thinconductive wire141of theconductive pattern140is described with reference toFIG. 29.FIG. 29is a view showing in enlargement a section of theconductive pattern sheet120correspondingly to an A-A line inFIGS. 26 and 27.

In the example shown inFIG. 29, theconductive pattern sheet120includes a sheet-like substrate130, aholding layer131laminated on thesubstrate130, and aconductive pattern140formed on theholding layer131. In a section (section shown inFIG. 29, which is referred to also as “main cut plane” hereinafter) perpendicular to an extension direction (longitudinal direction) of the thinconductive wire141, the thinconductive wire141has aproximal surface141bforming a surface on the side of thesubstrate130, adistal surface141afacing theproximal surface141b, andside surfaces141c,141dconnecting thedistal surface141aand theproximal surface141b. In this embodiment, thedistal surface141aof the thinconductive wire141forms a first surface which finally faces one of the pair ofglass plates111,112of theheating plate110, and theproximal surface141bof the thinconductive wire141forms a second surface which finally faces the other of the pair ofglass plates111,112of theheating plate110.

In the heating plate in which theconductive pattern140shown inFIG. 29is incorporated, i.e., in theheating plate110shown inFIG. 25, when a width of thefirst surface141aof the thinconductive wire141along the plate plane of theheating plate110in the main cut plane is represented as W2a(μm), a width of thesecond surface141bof the thinconductive wire141along the plate plane of theheating plate110in the main cut plane is represented as W2b(μm), and a cross-sectional area of the thinconductive wire141in the main cut plane is represented as Sea (μm2), the following relationships are satisfied.

0<|W2a−W2b|≤10  (a)

S2a≥10  (b)

In theconductive pattern sheet120shown inFIG. 29, when a width of theproximal surface141bof the thinconductive wire141along the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet120in the main cut plane is represented as W2d(μm), a width of thedistal surface141aof the thinconductive wire141along the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet120in the main cut plane is represented as W2(μm), and a cross-sectional area of the thinconductive wire141in the main cut plane is represented as S2b(μm2), the following relationships are satisfied.

0<|W2c−W2d|≤10  (c)

S2b≥10  (d)

In the example shown inFIG. 29, the first surface (distal surface)141aof the thinconductive wire141and the second surface (proximal surface)141bthereof are in parallel. The oneside surface141cof the thinconductive wire141forms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to theother side surface141das a certain point in theside surface141cmoves away from thesubstrate130along a normal direction of the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet120. In addition, theother side surface141dof the thinconductive wire141forms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to the oneside surface141cas a certain point in theside surface141dmoves away from thesubstrate130along the normal direction of the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet120. Thus, the thinconductive wire141is formed such that a line width thereof becomes narrow as a certain point in the thinconductive wire141moves away from thesubstrate130along the normal direction of the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet120.

In the example shown inFIG. 25, when theconductive layer140is incorporated in theheating plate110, the oneside surface141cof the thinconductive wire141forms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to theother side surface141das a certain point in theside surface141cmoves away from theglass plate12along a normal direction of the plate plane of theheating plate110. In addition, theother side surface141dof the thinconductive wire141forms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to the oneside surface141cas a certain point in theside surface141dmoves away from theglass plate112along the normal direction of the plate plane of theheating plate110. Thus, the thinconductive wire141is formed such that the line width thereof becomes narrow as a certain point in the thin conductive wire moves away from theglass plate112along the normal direction of the plate plane of theheating plate110.

Namely, the thinconductive wire141has substantially a trapezoidal shape in general, in the section perpendicular to its extension direction (longitudinal direction). In more detail, oneside surface141cof the thinconductive wire141has a shape that is concaved inward (toward theother side surface141d) from a line L1connecting one end A along a direction (which is referred to as width direction of the thinconductive wire141herebelow) in parallel with the sheet plane of the conductive pattern sheet120(plate plane of the heating plate110) in the first surface (distal surface)141aand perpendicular to the extension direction of the thinconductive wire141, and one end B along the width direction of the thinconductive wire141in the second surface (proximal surface)141b. Similarly, theother side surface141dof the thinconductive wire141has a shape that is concaved inward (toward the oneside surface141c) from a line L2connecting the other end C along the width direction of the thinconductive wire141in the first surface (distal surface)141aand the other end D along the width direction of the thinconductive wire141in the second surface (proximal surface)141b.

In theconductive pattern140as structured above, the widths W2a, W2cof the first surface (distal surface)141aof the thinconductive wire141may be not less than 2 μm and not more than 13 μm. In addition, the width W2b, W2dof the second surface (proximal surface)141bof the thinconductive wire141may be not less than 5 μm and not more than 15 μm. Further, a height H of the thinconductive wire141, i.e., the height H along the normal direction of the plate plane of the heating plate110(sheet plane of the conductive pattern sheet120) may be not less than 2 μm and not more than 15 μm. According to theconductive pattern140including the thinconductive wires141of such dimensions, since each thinconductive wire141is sufficiently thin, theconductive pattern140can be effectively made invisible.

In the example shown inFIGS. 25 and 29, the width W2b of thesecond surface141bof the thin conductive wire141(width W2dof theproximal surface141bof the thin conductive wire141) corresponds to a maximum width W of the thinconductive wire141.

According to theconductive pattern140including the thinconductive wires141having the dimensions and the cross-sectional areas satisfying the relationships (a) and (b) or the relationships (c) and (d), it is possible to ensure a cross-sectional area sufficient for obtaining a suitable conductivity, while reducing the maximum width W of the thinconductive wire141. Thus, a suitable conductivity of theconductive pattern140can be obtained, while theconductive pattern140can be effectively made invisible.

On the other hand, when a value of (|W2a−W2b|) or (|W2c−W2d|) is greater than 10 μm, it is necessary to increase the maximum width W of the thinconductive wire141in order to ensure a sufficient cross-sectional area in terms of ensuring a suitable conductivity. In this case, the invisibility of theconductive pattern140is deteriorated. In addition, when the maximum width W of the thinconductive wire141is reduced, a sufficient cross-sectional area cannot be ensured so that an electric resistance of theconductive pattern140becomes too large. Thus, the conductivity of theconductive pattern140is deteriorated. That is to say, it is impossible to sufficiently ensure a suitable conductivity and to make invisible theconductive pattern140at the same time.

As to the widths W2cof W2a, the first surface (distal surface)141aof the thinconductive wire141, the widths W2b, Wed of the second surface (proximal surface)141bof the thinconductive wire141, and the height H of the thinconductive wire141, actually it is possible to measure the respective dimensions of the thin conductive wires141(connection elements145) the number of which is considered to be suitable in consideration of dispersion degree of elements to be checked, in a certain section having a planar dimension (an area) that is considered to be capable of reflecting a general tendency of the respective dimensions. For example, dimensions obtained by measuring the100thin conductive wires141(connection elements145) included in an area of 300 mm×300 mm by means of an optical microscope or an electron microscope may be handled as the respective dimensions of the thin conductive wire141(connection element145) of theconductive pattern140.

In the example shown inFIGS. 25 and 29, the thinconductive wire141constituting theconductive pattern140includes adark color layer149located on the side of thesubstrate130of the thinconductive wire141to form the second surface (proximal surface)141bof the thinconductive wire141, and aconductive metal layer148located on the side opposed to thesubstrate130of the thinconductive wire141to form the first surface (distal surface)141aof the thinconductive wire141. In other words, the surface of theconductive meal layer148on the side of thesubstrate130is covered with thedark color layer149.

Thedark color layer149may be provided by subjecting a part of a material constituting theconductive metal layer148to a darkening treatment (blackening treatment), and forming a coating film made of metallic oxide or metallic sulfide on the part of theconductive metal layer148. Theconductive metal layer148and thedark color layer149have different etching speeds. In an etching step of theconductive metal layer148and thedark color layer149using a photolithographic technique as described below, by using thedark color layer149, the etching speed of theconductive metal layer148can be suitably adjusted. Since thedark color layer149formed by the darkening treatment (blackening treatment) has a roughened surface, thedark color layer149can exert an effect of improving contact between theconductive pattern140and theholding layer131.

Next, an example of a manufacturing method of theheating plate110is described with reference toFIGS. 30 to 35.FIGS. 30 to 35are sectional views showing the example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate110in sequence.

Firstly, ametal foil151is prepared, and adark color film152is formed on one surface of themetal foil151. Themetal foil151will form theconductive metal layer148of the thinconductive wire141. Thedark color film152will form thedark color layer149of the thinconductive wire14. Themetal foil151may be a foil made of metal such as gold, silver, copper, platinum, aluminum, chrome, molybdenum, nickel, titanium, palladium, indium, and an alloy of metals selected from two or more kinds of these metals, such as nickel-chrome alloy, brass and so on, for example. In addition, a thickness of themetal foil151may be not less than 2 μm and not more than 15 μm. Thedark color film152may be provided by subjecting a part of a material constituting themetal foil151to a darkening treatment (blackening treatment), and forming a coating film made of metallic oxide or metallic sulfide on the part of themetal foil151.

In addition, thesubstrate130is prepared, and theholding layer131is formed on one surface of thesubstrate130. Thesubstrate130may be made of a thermoplastic resin transmitting visible light, for example. The thermoplastic resin may be an acryl resin made of, e.g., polymethyl methacrylate, a polyester resin made of, e.g., polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene terephthalate (PET), amorphous polyethylene terephthalate (A-PET) or polyethylene naphthalate (PEN), a polyolefin resin made of, e.g., polyethylene, polypropylene, polymethyl pentene or cyclic polyolefin, a cellulose-based resin made of, e.g., triacetyl cellulose (cellulose triacetate), a polystyrene or polycarbonate resin, an AS resin and so on, for example. In particular, an acryl resin and polyvinyl chloride are preferred because of their excellent etching resistance, weather resistance and light resistance. Theholding layer131may be made of, e.g., polyvinyl butyral (PVB), a two-pack curable urethane adhesive, or a two-pack curable epoxy adhesive. Theholding layer131may be formed by laminating a sheet-like material on thesubstrate130, or may be formed by applying a flowable material to thesubstrate130.

Then, as shown inFIG. 30, themetal foil151on which thedark color film152has been formed and thesubstrate130on which theholding layer131has been formed are laminated in such a manner that thedark color film152and theholding layer131face to each other. At this time, since the surface of thedark color film152in contact with theholding layer131is roughened by the darkening treatment (blackening treatment), the resin material constituting theholding layer131enter fine irregularities in the surface of thedark color film152. Thus, thedark color film152and theholding layer131are securely joined to each other by a so-called anchoring effect. Thus, themetal foil151and thesubstrate130are securely joined to each other. Thus, as shown inFIG. 31, there is obtained a laminate in which thesubstrate130, the holding layer135, thedark color film152and themetal foil151are superposed in this order.

Next, as shown inFIG. 32, a resistpattern155is disposed on themetal foil151. The resistpattern155is a pattern corresponding to a pattern of theconductive pattern140to be formed. In the method described herein, the resistpattern155is disposed only a portion where theconductive pattern140is finally to be formed. The resistpattern155may be formed by a patterning method using a known photolithographic technique.

Then, as shown inFIG. 33, themetal foil151including thedark color film152is etched (etched by corrosion) with the resistpattern155serving as a mask. Due to this etching process, themetal foil151including thedark color film152can be patterned substantially similar to the resistpattern155. As a result, theconductive metal layer148and thedark color layer149, which will form the thinconductive wire141, is formed from the patternedmetal foil151. As a corrosion solution used in the etching process, a known corrosion solution may be suitably selected and used depending on a material(s) of themetal foil151and the dark color film152(if it exits). For example, when themetal foil151is made of copper and thedark color film152is made of copper oxide (II) (CuO), a ferric chloride solution may be used for both themetal foil151and thedark color film152. Alternatively, a ferric chloride solution may be used for a part (copper) forming themetal foil151, and diluted hydrochloric acid may be used for a part (copper oxide (II)) forming thedark color film152.

Generally, as compared with theconductive metal layer148made of a metal material, thedark color layer149made of oxide or sulfide of the metal material is easily corroded by etching. Thus, as compared with thedark color layer149, lateral corrosion by side etching is more likely to proceed in theconductive metal layer148. Thus, the lateral corrosion by side etching is more likely to proceed in theconductive metal layer148than in thedark color layer149. In addition, also in theconductive metal layer148, the lateral corrosion by side etching is more likely to proceed in an area distant from thedark color layer149than in an area close to thedark color layer149. Thus, by selecting an etchant and adjusting an etching period, the thinconductive wire141can be manufactured, which has a width that changes to narrow from the side of thesubstrate130toward the resistpattern155, i.e., which has a tapered cross-sectional shape. Similarly, by selecting an etchant and adjusting an etching period, the widths W2a, W2cof the first surface (distal surface)141aof the thinconductive wire141and the widths W2b, Wed of the second surface (proximal surface)141bthereof can be formed into desired widths.

Thereafter, the resistpattern155is removed so that theconductive pattern sheet120shown inFIG. 34is manufactured.

Finally, theglass plates111, thejoint layer113, theconductive pattern sheet120, thejoint layer114and theglass plate112are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized. In the example shown inFIG. 35, thejoint layer113is provisionally attached to theglass plate111, and thejoint layer114is provisionally attached to theglass plate112. Then, theglass plate111to which thejoint layer113has been provisionally attached, theconductive pattern sheet120, and theglass plate112to which thejoint layer114has been provisionally attached are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized, in such a manner that the side of theglass plate111, to which thejoint layer113has been provisionally attached, and the side of theglass plate112, to which thejoint layer114has been provisionally attached, face theconductive pattern sheet120. Thus, theglass plates111, theconductive pattern sheet120and theglass plates112are joined through thejoint layers113,114, whereby theheating plate110shown inFIG. 25is manufactured.

Theaforementioned heating plate110in this embodiment includes the pair ofglass plates111,112, theconductive pattern140disposed between the pair ofglass plates111,112and including the thinconductive wires141, and thejoint layers113,114disposed between theconductive pattern140and at least one of the pair ofglass plates111,112. The thinconductive wire141of theconductive pattern140has thefirst surface141afacing one of the pair ofglass plates111,112, and thesecond surface141bfacing the other of the pair ofglass plates111,112. When a width of thefirst surface141aof the thinconductive wire141is represented as W2a(μm), a width of thesecond surface141bof the thinconductive wire14is represented as W2b(μm), and a cross-sectional area of the thinconductive wire141is represented as S2a(μm2), the following relationships represented (a) and (b) are satisfied.

0<|W2a−W2b|≤10  (a)

S2a≥10  (b)

In addition, the aforementionedconductive pattern sheet120in the second embodiment includes thesubstrate130, and theconductive pattern sheet140disposed on thesubstrate130and including the thinconductive wires141. The thinconductive wire141of theconductive pattern140has theproximal surface141bforming the surface on the side of thesubstrate130, and thedistal surface141afacing theproximal surface141b. When a width of thedistal surface141aof the thinconductive wire141is represented as W2c(μm), a width of theproximal surface141bof the thinconductive wire141is represented as W2d(μm), and a cross-sectional area of the thinconductive wire141is represented as S2b(μm2), the following relationships represented (c) and (d) are satisfied.

0<|W2c−W2d|≤10  (c)

S2b≥10  (d)

According to such aheating plate110and such aconductive pattern sheet120, it is possible to ensure a cross-sectional area sufficient for obtaining a suitable conductivity, while reducing the maximum width W (in the example shown inFIGS. 25 and 29, W2b, W2d) of the thinconductive wire141. Thus, a suitable conductivity of theconductive pattern140can be obtained, while theconductive pattern140can be effectively made invisible.

The aforementioned second embodiment can be variously modified. Modification examples are described with reference suitably to the drawings. In the below description and the drawings for the description, a component that can be similarly made as the above embodiment is shown by the same symbol as a component corresponding to the above embodiment, and overlapped description is omitted.

A modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate110is described with reference toFIGS. 36 to 40.FIGS. 36 to 40are sectional views showing the modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate110in sequence.

Firstly, theconductive pattern sheet120is manufactured. Theconductive pattern sheet120may be manufactured by the method as described above in the example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate110.

Then, theglass plate111, thejoint layer113and theconductive pattern sheet120are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized. In the example shown inFIG. 36, thejoint layer113is provisionally attached to theglass plate111firstly. Then, theglass plate111to which thejoint layer113has been provisionally attached is superposed from the side of theconductive pattern140of theconductive pattern sheet120and heated/pressurized, in such a manner that the side of theglass plate111, to which thejoint layer113has been provisionally attached, faces theconductive pattern sheet120. Thus, as showing inFIG. 37, theglass plates111and theconductive pattern sheet120are joined (provisionally joined or completely joined) through thejoint layer113.

Then, as shown inFIG. 38, thesubstrate130of theconductive pattern sheet120is removed. For example, when theholding layer131is formed to include a peeling layer, thesubstrate130of theconductive pattern sheet120can be peeled from theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113by means of the peeling layer.

The peeling layer may be, for example, a peeling layer of an interface peeling type, a peeling layer of an interlayer peeling type, a peeling layer of a cohesion peeling type and so on. As a peeling layer of an interface peeling type, there may be suitably used a peeling layer having relatively a lower adhesive property to theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113, than an adhesive property to thesubstrate130. Such a layer may be a silicone resin layer, a fluororesin layer, a polyolefin resin layer and so on. In addition, it is possible to use a peeling layer having relatively a lower adhesive property to thesubstrate130, than an adhesive property to theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113. A peeling layer of an interlayer peeling type may be, for example, a peeling layer including a plurality of film layers, and having relatively a lower adhesive property between the plurality of layers, than an adhesive property to theconductive pattern140, thejoint layer113and thesubstrate130. A peeling layer of a cohesion peeling type may be, for example, a peeling layer formed by dispersing fillers as a dispersal phase in a base resin as a continuous phase.

When a peeling layer of an interface peeling type including a layer having relatively a lower adhesive property to theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113, than an adhesive property to thesubstrate130, is used, a peeling phenomenon occurs between the peeling layer, and theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113. In this case, it is possible to make the peeling layer not remain on theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113. Namely, thesubstrate130is removed together with the peeling layer. When thesubstrate130and the peeling layer are removed in this manner, thejoint layer113is exposed into the openingareas144of theconductive pattern140.

On the other hand, when a peeling layer of an interface peeling type having relatively a lower adhesive property to thesubstrate130, than an adhesive property to theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113, is used, a peeling phenomenon occurs between the peeling layer and thesubstrate130. When a peeling layer of an interlayer peeling type including a plurality of layers, and having relatively a lower adhesive property between the plurality of film layers, than an adhesive property to theconductive pattern140, thejoint layer113and thesubstrate130, is used, a peeling phenomenon occurs between the plurality of layers. When a peeling layer of a cohesion peeling type, which is formed by dispersing fillers as a dispersal phase in a base resin as a continuous phase, is used, a peeling phenomenon occurs in the peeling layer by cohesion failure.

Finally, theglass plate111, thejoint layer113and theconductive pattern140, thejoint layer114, and theglass plate112are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized. In the example shown inFIG. 39, thejoint layer114is attached to theglass plate112firstly. Then, theglass plate111, theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113, and theglass plate112to which thejoint layer114has been provisionally attached are superposed in this order and heated/pressurized, in such a manner that the side of theglass plate112, to which thejoint layer114has been provisionally attached, faces theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113. Thus, theglass plate111, theconductive pattern140, theglass plates112are joined (completely joined) through thejoint layers113,114, whereby theheating plate110shown inFIG. 40is manufactured.

According to theheating plate110shown inFIG. 40, theheating plate110can be free ofsubstrate130. Thus, the thickness of theheating plate110as a whole can be reduced. In addition, the number of boundary faces in theheating plate110can be reduced. Thus, deterioration of optical properties, i.e., deterioration of visibility can be restrained.

Next, another modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate110is described with reference toFIGS. 41 and 42.FIGS. 41 and 42are sectional views showing the other modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate110in sequence.

Firstly, by the same steps as those of the above modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate110, theglass plate111and theconductive pattern sheet120are joined (provisionally joined) through thejoint layer113. Then, thesubstrate130is removed therefrom. Namely, the laminate of theglass plate111, theconductive pattern140and thejoint layer113is obtained, which is described in the above modification example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate110with reference toFIG. 38.

Then, as shown inFIG. 41, theglass plate111, thejoint layer113and theconductive pattern140, and theglass plate112are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized. Thus, theglass plate111and theconductive pattern140are joined (completely joined) through thejoint layer113, and theglass plate111and 0s theglass plate112are joined (completely joined) through thejoint layer113. Thus, theheating plate110shown inFIG. 42is manufactured.

According to theheating plate10shown inFIG. 42, theheating plate110can be free of thesubstrate130and thejoint layer114. Thus, the thickness of theheating plate110as a whole can be further reduced. In addition, the number of boundary faces in theheating plate110can be further reduced. Thus, deterioration of optical properties, i.e., deterioration of visibility can be furthermore effectively restrained. Moreover, since theconductive pattern140and theglass plate112are in contact with each other, a heating efficiency of theglass plate112by theconductive pattern140can be increased.

In the aforementioned second embodiment, the plurality ofconnection elements145included in theconductive pattern140each have a linear shape (linear line segments) when viewed in the normal direction of the plate plane of theheating plate110. However, not limited thereto, at least some of the plurality ofconnection elements145may have a shape other than a linear shape such as a curved shape or a polygonal line shape. Specifically, theconnection element145may have an arcuate shape, a parabolic shape, a corrugated shape, a zigzag shape, a combination shape of a curved line and a linear line, and so on. In particular, it is preferable that a rate of theconnection elements145which are straight lines (straight line segments) connecting the twobranch points143, relative to the plurality ofconnection elements145, is less than 20%. Namely, it is preferable that 80% or more of theconnection elements145have a shape other than a linear shape (straight line segment).

According to theconductive pattern140including theconnection elements145having a shape other than a linear shape (straight line segment), light incident on the side surface of theconnection element145having a curved shape or a polygonal line shape and so on is reflected irregularly on the side surface. Thus, it can be restrained that the light incident on the side surface of theconnection element145from a certain direction (headlight of an oncoming automobile, sunlight and so on) is reflected on the side surface in a certain direction correspondingly to the incident direction. Thus, it can be restrained that the reflected light is visible to an observer such as a driver, so that theconductive pattern140having theconnection elements145is visible to the observer. As a result, the deterioration of visibility of an observer through a pane, which is caused by the visibleconductive pattern140, can be restrained.

In the aforementioned second embodiment, theconductive pattern140has a pattern determined based on the Voronoi diagram, i.e., a number of the openingareas144which have shapes which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity) and are arranged at pitches which do not have a repeated regularity (periodic regularity). However, not limited to this pattern, there may be used, as theconductive pattern140, various patterns such as a pattern in which triangular, rectangular, or hexagonal opening areas of the same shape are regularly arranged, a pattern in which opening areas of different shapes are regularly arranged, and so on.

Theheating plate110may be used in a rear window, a side window and a sun roof of theautomobile1. In addition, theheating plate110may be used in a window or a transparent part of a door of a vehicle other than an automobile, such as a railway, an aircraft, a vessel, a space vessel and so on, or a window or a door of a building, and a window or a transparent part of a door of a refrigerator, an exhibition box and a storage or preservation installation such as a cabinet.

Further, in addition to a vehicle, theheating plate110may be used in a part by which an inside and an outside is partitioned, such as a window of a building, a store and a house.

Although some modification examples of the above second embodiment are described, the modification examples can be naturally combined with one another for application.

FIG. 1andFIGS. 43 to 56are views for explaining a third embodiment according to the present invention. In the third embodiment described below, a component corresponding to that of the first and second embodiments is shown by a symbol in200swith the same last two digits, and overlapped description is omitted.

FIG. 43is a view of a heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 44is a cross sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 43.FIG. 45is a view showing conditions of respective members constituting the heating plate ofFIG. 44before the respective members are laminated. The heating plate in this embodiment is sometimes referred to as “laminated glass”.

FIG. 43shows aheating plate210when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 44is a cross-sectional view corresponding to a XLIV-XLIV line of theheating plate210ofFIG. 43. Theheating plate210includes a pair ofcurved glass plates211,212, a conductive pattern sheet (pattern sheet)220disposed between the pair ofcurved glass plates211,212, ajoint layer213that joins theglass plate211and theconductive pattern sheet220, and ajoint layer214that joins theglass plate212and theconductive pattern sheet220.

Theconductive pattern sheet220includes asubstrate230, aconductive pattern240formed on thesubstrate230, awiring part15for powering theconductive pattern240, and aconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern240and thewiring part15.

In the example shown inFIGS. 43 and 44, theconductive pattern240is powered by apower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so that theconductive pattern240generates heat by means of resistance heat. The heat generated by theconductive pattern240is transmitted to theglass plates211,212through thejoint layers213,214, so that theglass plates211,212are warmed up. Thus, dew drops on theglass plates211,212can be removed so that theglass plates211,112can be defogged. When there is snow or ice on theglass plates211,212, the snow or ice can be unfrozen. Thus, an excellent field of view of a passenger can be ensured.

In order to manufacture theheating plate210, as shown inFIG. 45, thecurved glass plate211, thejoint layer213, theconductive pattern sheet220, thejoint layer214and thecurved glass plate212are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized, so that thecurved glass plates211, theconductive pattern sheet220and thecurved glass plates212are joined by thejoint layers213,214.

Particularly when used as a front window, theglass plate211,212preferably has a high visible light transmittance in order not to hinder a field of view of a passenger. A material of such aglass plate211,212may be soda lime glass, blue plate glass and so on, for example. Theglass plate211,212preferably has a transmittance of 90% or more in a visible light area. The visible light transmittance of theglass plate211,212is specified as follows. Transmittance of light with measurement wavelength range of from 380 nm to 780 nm is measured by using a spectrophotometer (manufactured by Shimadzu Corporation, “UV-3100PC”, compliant with JIS K 0115). The visible light transmittance is an average value of the transmittances at the respective wavelengths. The visible light transmittance may be lowered by partially or totally coloring theglass plate211,212, for example. In this case, direct sunlight can be shielded and an inside of the automobile is less visible from outside.

In addition, theglass plate211,212preferably has a thickness of not less than 1 mm and not more than 5 mm. With such a thickness, theglass plate211,212excellent in strength and optical properties can be obtained.

Theglass plates211,212and theconductive pattern sheet220are joined to each other through thejoint layers213,214, respectively. As such ajoint layer213,214, a layer made of a material having various adhesion properties or gluing (pressure sensitive adhesive) properties can be employed. In addition, thejoint layer213,214preferably has a high visible light transmittance. A typical joint layer may be a layer made of polyvinyl butyral (PVB), for example. Thejoint layer213,214preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.15 mm and not more than 0.7 mm.

Not limited to the illustrated example, theheating plate210may be provided with another function layer for exerting a specific function. In addition, one function layer may exert two or more functions. Alternatively, for example, a function may be given to at least one of theglass plate211,212of theheating plate210, thejoint layer213,214thereof, and thesubstrate230of theconductive pattern sheet220thereof, which is described later. The function that can be given toheating plate210may be an antireflection (AR) function, a hard coat (HC) function having an abrasion resistance, an infrared ray shield (reflection) function, an ultraviolet ray shield (reflection) function, a polarizing function, an antifouling function and so on, for example.

Next, theconductive pattern sheet220is described. Theconductive pattern sheet220includes thesubstrate230, theconductive pattern240disposed on thesubstrate230, thewiring part15for powering theconductive pattern240, and theconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern240and thewiring part15. Theconductive pattern sheet220may have a planar dimension substantially the same as that of theglass plate211,212so as to be placed all over theheating plate210. Alternatively, theconductive pattern sheet220may be placed over only a part of theheating plate210, such as a part in front of a driver's seat.

Thesubstrate230functions as a substrate that supports theconductive pattern240. Thesubstrate230is an electrically insulating substrate that transmits light of a wavelength (380 nm to 780 nm) of a visible light wavelength band, which is generally recognized as transparent. Thesubstrate230contains a thermoplastic resin.

A thermoplastic resin contained as a main component in thesubstrate230may be any thermoplastic resin as long as it transmits visible light. The thermoplastic resin may be an acryl resin made of, e.g., polymethyl methacrylate, a polyolefin resin made of e.g., polypropylene, a polyester resin made of, e.g., polyethylene terephthalate or polyethylene naphthalate, a cellulose-based resin made of, e.g., triacetyl cellulose (cellulose triacetate), polyvinyl chloride, polystyrene, a polycarbonate resin, an AS resin and so on, for example. In particular, an acryl resin and polyethylene terephthalate are preferred because of their excellent optical properties and moldability.

In addition, in consideration of support property during manufacture and light transmission of theconductive pattern240, thesubstrate230preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.02 mm and not more than 0.20 mm.

Theconductive pattern240is described with reference toFIGS. 46 to 48.FIG. 46is a plan view of theconductive pattern sheet220when viewed in a normal direction of a sheet plane thereof, showing an example of an arrangement pattern of theconductive pattern240.

Theconductive pattern240is powered by thepower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so as to generate heat by means of resistance heat. The heat is transmitted to theglass plates211,212through thejoint layers213,214, so that theglass plates211,212are warmed up.

Theconductive pattern240shown inFIG. 46includes a plurality of thinconductive wires241that are arranged in a line and space pattern. Namely, theconductive pattern240includes the plurality of thinconductive wires241arranged in one direction. Each thinconductive wire241extends in the other direction not in parallel with the one direction, apart from another thinconductive wire241adjacent in the one direction. In the illustrated example, each thinconductive wire241is apart from another thinconductive wire241and connects the pair ofconnection parts16. Namely, in the illustrated example, the one direction is an extension direction of theconnection part16, which is an up and down direction of theautomobile1. In addition, the other direction is a right and left direction of theautomobile1. Although each thinconductive wire241extends in the other direction in a corrugated pattern, the thinconductive wire241may extend in a polygonal line shape or in a linear shape.

Although not formed in the illustrated example, theconductive pattern240may include a thin wire connecting adjacent thinconductive wires241, i.e., a connection line. In addition, in the illustrated example, each thinconductive wire241extends in the right and left direction of theautomobile1, which is the other direction, each thinconductive wire241may extend in the up and down direction of theautomobile1.

In this embodiment, a copper film is used as a material for constituting such aconductive pattern240. A copper film means an electrolytic copper foil, a rolled copper foil, a copper film formed (deposited) by a spattering method, a vacuum deposition method and so on. Although the details are described later, theconductive pattern240is formed by patterning a copper film by an etching process.

FIG. 47is a sectional view corresponding to an A-A line ofFIG. 46, showing an example of a sectional shape of the thin conductive wire. The plurality of thinconductive wires241constituting theconductive pattern240are formed on thesubstrate230. In the illustrated example, the thinconductive wire241has asurface241aon the side of thesubstrate230, asurface241bon the side opposed to thesubstrate230, andside surfaces241c,241d. The thinconductive wire241has substantially a rectangular section in general. In this embodiment, a line width W (herebelow simply as “width”) of the thinconductive wire241, i.e., the width W along the sheet plane of thesubstrate230is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm, preferably not less than 2 μm and not more than 15 μm. Thus, theconductive pattern240is seen transparent in general, and has an excellent see-through property. In addition, a height (thickness) H of the thinconductive wire241, i.e., the height (thickness) H along the normal direction to the sheet plane of thesubstrate230is preferably not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm, and more preferably not less than 1 μm and not more than 10 μm. Since the thinconductive wire241having such a height dimension, in addition to the line width W, is sufficiently thin, theconductive pattern240can be effectively made invisible.

InFIG. 47, the symbol P represents a pitch between the adjacent thin conductive wires (distance between the adjacent thin conductive wires241) in theconductive pattern240. The pitch P is not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm. The pitch may be not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 7 mm.

In addition, the thinconductive wire241includes a firstdark color layer246disposed on thesubstrate230, aconductive metal layer245disposed on the firstdark color layer246, and a seconddark color layer247disposed on theconductive metal layer245. In other words, the surface of theconductive metal layer245on the side of thesubstrate230is covered with the firstdark color layer246, and the surface of theconductive metal layer245on the side opposed to thesubstrate230and both side surfaces thereof are covered with the seconddark color layer247.

Theconductive metal layer245made of a metal material has relatively a high reflectance. When light is reflected on theconductive metal layer245forming theconductive metal wires241of theconductive pattern240, the reflected light may be visible, which hinders a field of view of a passenger. In addition, when theconductive metal layer245is visible from outside, design is sometimes impaired. Thus, the dark color layers246,247are disposed at least a part of the surface of theconductive metal layer245. The dark color layers246,247are layer having a visible light reflectance that is lower than that of theconductive metal layer245, and are black-colored dark color layers, for example. Due to the dark color layers246,247, theconductive metal layer245becomes less visible, whereby an excellent field of view of a passenger can be ensured. In addition, impairment of design when seen from outside can be prevented. However, such dark color layers246,247may be omitted. In this case, the width W of the thinconductive wire241is a width of the singleconductive metal layer245.

FIG. 48is a sectional view corresponding to the A-A line ofFIG. 46, showing another sectional shape of the conductive metal wire. In the illustrated example, theconductive metal wire241includes asurface241aon the side of thesubstrate230, asurface241bon the side opposed to thesubstrate230, andside surfaces241c,241d. Thesurface241aon the side of thesubstrate230and thesurface241bon the side opposed to thesubstrate230are in parallel. Theside surface241cforms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to theside surface241das a certain point in theside surface241cmoves away from thesubstrate230along the normal direction of the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet220. Theside surface241dalso forms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to theside surface241cas a certain point in theside surface241dmoves away from thesubstrate230along the normal direction of the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet220. The thinconductive wire241has substantially a trapezoidal section in general. Namely, the width of the thinconductive wire241changes to narrow as a certain point in the thinconductive wire241moves away from thesubstrate230along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet220. In addition, similarly to the example shown inFIG. 47, the surface of theconductive metal layer245on the side of thesubstrate230is covered with the firstdark color layer246, and the surface of theconductive metal layer245on the side opposed to thesubstrate230and both side surfaces thereof are covered with the seconddark color layer247.

FIG. 48shows that the thinconductive wire241has substantially a trapezoidal section in general, and that the width of the thinconductive wire241changes to narrow as a certain point in the thinconductive wire241moves away from thesubstrate230along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet220. However, not limited thereto, the side surfaces241c,241dmay be formed of curved lines, or may be formed in a tier-like shape. In addition, the width of the thinconductive wire241may be partially wider as a certain point in the thinconductive wire241moves away from thesubstrate230along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet220. Namely, when the section of the thinconductive wire241is seen generally and comprehensively, it is sufficient that the width of theconductive wire241changes to narrow as a certain point in the thinconductive wire241moves away from thesubstrate230along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet220.

In the example shown inFIG. 48, since the width of the thinconductive wire241changes to narrow as a certain point in the thinconductive wire241moves away from thesubstrate230along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet220, when theglass plates211,212, thejoint layers213,214and theconductive pattern sheet220are laminated, theconductive pattern240can be reliably embedded in thejoint layer213, and bubbles in an interface between theconductive pattern240and thejoint layer213can be restrained from remaining therein.

Next, an example of a manufacturing method of theheating plate210is described with reference toFIGS. 49 to 56.FIGS. 49 to 56are sectional views showing the example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate210in sequence, particularly views for explaining manufacture of theconductive pattern sheet220in detail. After theconductive pattern sheet220is manufactured, theconductive pattern sheet220is sandwiched between theglass plates211,212so that theheating plate210is manufactured.

In order to manufacture theconductive pattern sheet220, as shown inFIG. 49, thesubstrate230is firstly prepared. Thesubstrate230is an electrically insulating substrate that transmits light of a wavelength (380 nm to 780 nm) of a visible light wavelength band, which is generally recognized as transparent. Thesubstrate230contains a thermoplastic resin.

Then, as shown inFIG. 50, the firstdark color246is disposed on thesubstrate230. For example, the first dark color layer263can be disposed on thesubstrate230by a plating method including electrolytic plating and electroless plating, a spattering method, a vacuum deposition method, an ion plating method, a PVD method and a CVD method other than these methods, or a combination method of the two or more methods. Various known materials may be used as material of the firstdark color layer246. For example, the material may be copper nitride, copper oxide, nickel nitride and so on.

Then, as shown inFIG. 51, theconductive metal layer245is disposed on the firstdark color layer246. Theconductive metal layer245is a layer formed of a copper film. When an electrolytic copper foil or a rolled copper foil is used to form theconductive metal layer245, theconductive metal layer245is disposed on the firstdark color layer246through a two-pack mixture type urethane ester-based adhesive (illustration omitted), for example. When an electrolytic copper foil is used, an electrolytic copper foil of not more than 7 μm is preferably used in order to make thin the thinconductive wire241as much as possible. When a copper film formed by a spattering method or a vacuum vapor deposition method is used, theconductive metal layer245is disposed by depositing a film on the firstdark color layer246through an adhesive primer (illustration omitted). When a copper film formed by a spattering method or a vacuum vapor deposition method is used as theconductive metal layer245, an electrolytic plated layer may be deposited on the copper film, so as to form theconductive metal layer245including the copper film formed by a spattering method or a vacuum vapor deposition method, and the electrolytic plated layer. As a film deposition method for a copper film, a spattering method, a vacuum vapor deposition method, an ion plating method, a PVD method other than these methods or a combination method thereof may be employed. In addition, as described above, a copper film may be formed by an electrolytic plating method. Moreover, it is possible to employ a method in which an electrolytic plating method is combined to the above described spattering method, the vacuum vapor deposition method, the ion plating method and so on.

Then, as shown inFIG. 52, the resistlayer248is disposed on theconductive metal layer245. The resistlayer248is a resin layer having a photosensitivity to light of a predetermined wavelength range, such as ultraviolet light. The resin layer may be formed by adhering a resin film, or may be formed by applying a flowable resin. A concrete photosensitive property of the resistlayer248is not specifically limited. For example, a photo-curing type photosensitive material or a photo-dissolving photosensitive material may be used as the resistlayer248.

Thereafter, as shown inFIG. 53, the resistlayer248is patterned to form the resistpattern249. Various known methods may be used as the method of patterning the resistlayer248. In this example, a resin layer having a photosensitivity to light of a predetermined wavelength range, such as ultraviolet light, is used as the resistlayer248, and a known photolithographic technique is used for patterning the resistlayer248. Firstly, a mask which opens a part to be patterned or a mask which shields a part to be patterned is placed on the resistlayer248, and the resistlayer248is irradiated with ultraviolet light through the mask. Thereafter, the part shielded by the mask from the ultraviolet light or the part irradiated with the ultraviolet light is removed by means of developing or the like. Thus, the patterned resistpattern249can be formed. A laser patterning method without mask can be used.

Then, as shown inFIG. 54, theconductive metal layer245and the firstdark color layer246are etched with the resistpattern249serving as a mask. Due to this etching process, theconductive metal layer245and the firstdark color layer246are patterned substantially similar to the resistpattern249. The etching method is not particularly limited, and a known method may be employed. The known method may be a wet etching method using etchant, a plasma etching method and so on. Thereafter, as shown inFIG. 55, the resistpattern249is removed.

Finally, the seconddark color layer247is formed on thesurface241bof theconductive metal layer245on the side opposed to thesubstrate230and the side surfaces241c,241d. The seconddark color layer247is formed by, e.g., subjecting a part of a material constituting theconductive metal layer245to a darkening treatment (blackening treatment). Namely, in this case, the seconddark color layer247made of metallic oxide or metallic sulfide can be formed from the part constituting theconductive metal layer245. Alternatively, the seconddark color layer247as a coating film made of a dark color material or a plated layer made of nickel or chrome may be disposed on the surface of theconductive metal layer245. In addition, the surface of theconductive metal layer245may be roughened, and the seconddark color layer247may be disposed thereon.

In this example, the seconddark color layer247is formed on thesurface241bof theconductive metal layer245on the side opposed to thesubstrate230and the side surfaces241c,241d. However, not limited thereto, the seconddark color layer247may be formed only on thesurface241bof theconductive metal layer245on the side opposed to thesubstrate230, or only on the side surfaces241c,241dof theconductive metal layer245.

When the seconddark color layer247is formed only on thesurface241bof theconductive metal layer245on the side opposed to thesubstrate230, after the step shown inFIG. 51, for example, the seconddark color layer247and the resistlayer248are disposed in this order on theconductive metal layer245, and the resistpattern249is formed by patterning the resistlayer248. Thereafter, the seconddark color layer247, theconductive metal layer245and the firstdark color layer246are etched with the resistpattern249serving as a mask.

Alternatively, when the seconddark color layer247is formed only on the side surfaces241c,241dof theconductive metal layer245, after the step shown inFIG. 54, for example, the seconddark color layer247is formed without removing the resistpattern249. After that, the resistpattern249is removed.

When the firstdark color layer246is not necessary, the step of disposing the firstdark color layer246on thesubstrate230, which is shown inFIG. 50, is omitted.

Then, after the aboveconductive pattern sheet220is manufactured, thecurved glass plate211, thejoint layer213, theconductive pattern sheet220, thejoint layer214and thecurved glass plate212are superposed in this order and heated/pressurized, whereby theheating plate210is manufactured. Theheating plate210includes the pair ofcurved glass plates211,212, theconductive pattern sheet220disposed between the pair ofcurved glass plates211,212, thejoint layer213disposed between theglass plate211and theconductive pattern sheet220to join theglass plate211and theconductive pattern sheet220, and thejoint layer214disposed between theglass plate212and theconductive pattern sheet220to join theglass plate212and theconductive pattern sheet220. Theconductive pattern sheet220includes thesubstrate230and theconductive pattern240formed on thesubstrate230. A desired pattern is easily given precisely to theconductive pattern240by the aforementioned patterning method. Since the plurality of thinconductive wires241forming a pattern in theconductive pattern240are disposed between theglass plates211,212, positions of the thinconductive wires241are fixed. Thus, a desired pattern of the thinconductive wires241can be easily given precisely to theheating plate210.

According to theheating plate210in the third embodiment, theconductive pattern240includes the plurality of thinconductive wires241that are formed of a patterned copper film and arranged in the one direction. Each thinconductive wire241extends in the other direction not in parallel the one direction, apart from another thinconductive wire241adjacent in the one direction. To be more specific, theconductive pattern240includes the thinconductive wires241that are arrange in a line and space pattern. The line width of the thinconductive wire241is formed to be not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm. In addition, the pitch between the adjacent thinconductive wires241is formed to be not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm. Thus, since the thinconductive wire241is sufficiently thin, an excellent see-through property can be obtained. In addition, a volume resistivity of the thinconductive wire241made of copper is low. Thus, although the line width is thin, suitable heat generation can be obtained when the thinconductive wire241is powered. In this embodiment, theconductive pattern240is formed by patterning (through a step including an etching process) a copper film. Thus, as described above, this embodiment is advantageous in that a desired pattern of the thinconductive wires241can be easily given precisely to theheating plate210.

The aforementioned third embodiment may be variously modified.

For example, theconductive pattern240of theconductive pattern sheet220may be provided, not on the surface of thesubstrate230on the side of thejoint layer211, but on the surface on the side of thejoint layer212. Alternatively, theconductive pattern240may be provided both on the surfaces of thesubstrate230on the side of thejoint layer211and on the side of thejoint layer212.

Theheating plate210may be used in a rear window, a side window and a sun roof of theautomobile1. In addition, theheating plate210may be used in a window of a vehicle other than an automobile, such as a railway, an aircraft, a vessel, a space vessel and so on.

Further, in addition to a vehicle, theheating plate210may be used in a part by which an inside and an outside is partitioned, such as a window of a building, a store and a house.

Although some modification examples of the above third embodiment are described, the modification examples can be naturally combined with one another for application.

Although the third embodiment is described in more detail herebelow by using examples, the third embodiment is not limited to these examples. In addition, a comparative example is also described.

Theheating plate210in Example 1 was manufactured as follows. As thesubstrate230, there was firstly prepared a PET (polyethylene terephthalate) film (manufactured by TOYOBO Co., Ltd A4300) having a thickness of 100 μm, a width of 98 cm and a length of 100 m. A two-pack mixture type urethane ester-based adhesive was applied to thesubstrate230by a gravure coater, such that a thickness of the cured adhesive became 7 μm. Then, an electrolytic copper foil having a thickness of 10 μm, a width of 97 cm and a length of 80 m was laminated as theconductive metal layer245on thesubstrate230through an adhesive. The electrolytic copper foil and thesubstrate230were maintained for 4 days in an environment of 50° C., so that the electrolytic copper foil was secured on thesubstrate230.

Thereafter, the resistlayer248was laminated on the electrolytic copper foil (conductive metal layer245), and was exposed in a line and space pattern of 1.5 mm in pitch and 4 μm in line width. Then, an unnecessary resist was cleaned (removed) to form the resistpattern249. The electrolytic copper foil was etched with the resistpattern249serving as a mask. Then, after cleaning, there was obtained theconductive pattern sheet220with theconductive pattern240including the thinconductive wires241that were arranged in the line and space pattern of 1.5 mm in pitch and 4 μm in line width.

Then, the thus obtainedconductive pattern sheet220was cut to have an upper base of 125 cm, a lower base of 155 cm and a height of 96 cm. Then, theconductive pattern sheet220was disposed between theglass plates211,212having a shape, when viewed in a normal direction, which has an upper base of 120 cm, a lower base of 150 cm and height of 95 cm, through thejoint layers213,214formed of PBV adhesive sheets having the same size as that of theglass plates211,212. Then, the laminate of these members was heated/pressurized (vacuum laminated). Then, the joint layer and theconductive pattern sheet220projecting from between theglass plates211,212were trimmed so as to obtain theheating plate210according to Example 1.

Upon inspection of theheating plate210according to Example 1 with eyes, theheating plate210was found to have an excellent see-through property. In addition, light beam stripes were not conspicuous. Light beam stripes are visible stripes of light. When a heating wire (thin conductive wire) in a defroster apparatus is thick, light beam strips tend to be large and thus can be conspicuous. Since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 0.7Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate210was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.

Theheating plate210in Example 2 was manufactured as follows. As thesubstrate230, there was firstly prepared a PET (polyethylene terephthalate) film (manufactured by TOYOBO Co., Ltd A4300) having a thickness of 100 μm, a width of 98 cm and a length of 100 m. Copper was spattered to thesubstrate330though an adhesive primer such that the copper had a thickness of 500 nm. Further, copper was laminated by plating on the spattered copper, so as to obtain a conductive metal layer (copper film)345formed of the spattered copper film and the plated copper, with a total thickness of 2 μm.

Thereafter, the resistlayer248was laminated on theconductive metal layer245, and was exposed in a line and space pattern of 0.3 mm in pitch and 2 μm in line width. Then, an unnecessary resist was cleaned (removed) to form the resistpattern249. The copper film was etched with the resistpattern249serving as a mask. Then, after cleaning, there was obtained theconductive pattern sheet220with theconductive pattern240including the thinconductive wires241that were arranged in the line and space pattern of 0.3 mm in pitch and 2 μm in line width.

Then, the thus obtainedconductive pattern sheet220was cut to have an upper base of 125 cm, a lower base of 155 cm and a height of 96 cm. Then, theconductive pattern sheet220was disposed between theglass plates211,212having a shape, when viewed in a normal direction, which has an upper base of 120 cm, a lower base of 150 cm and height of 95 cm, through thejoint layers213,214formed of PBV adhesive sheets having the same size as that of theglass plates211,212. Then, the laminate of these members was heated/pressurized (vacuum laminated). Then, the joint layer and theconductive pattern sheet220projecting from between theglass plates211,212were trimmed so as to obtain theheating plate210according to Example 2.

Upon inspection of theheating plate210according to Example 2 with eyes, theheating plate210was found to have an excellent see-through property. In addition, light beam stripes were not conspicuous. Since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 1.3Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate210was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.

In the manufacture of theheating plate210in Example 3, when theconductive pattern sheet220was manufactured, a copper foil having a thickness of 6 μm was used. The resistlayer248on the copper foil (conductive metal layer245) was exposed in a line and space pattern of 1 mm in pitch and 6 μm in line width. Other than that, by using the same materials and the same steps as those of Example 1, theheating plate210was obtained. Theconductive pattern sheet220in theheating plate210was provided with theconductive pattern240including the thinconductive wires241that were arranged in the line and space pattern of 1 mm in pitch and 6 μm in line width. In theheating plate210in Example 3, since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 0.5Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate210was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.

In the manufacture of theheating plate210in Example 4, when theconductive pattern sheet220was manufactured, a copper foil having a thickness of 10 μm was used. The resistlayer248on the copper foil (conductive metal layer245) was exposed in a line and space pattern of 1.7 mm in pitch and 8 μm in line width. Other than that, by using the same materials and the same steps as those of Example 1, theheating plate210was obtained. Theconductive pattern sheet220in theheating plate210was provided with theconductive pattern240including the thinconductive wires241that were arranged in the line and space pattern of 1.7 mm in pitch and 8 μm in line width. In theheating plate210in Example 4, since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 0.4Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate210was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.

In the manufacture of theheating plate210in Example 5, when theconductive pattern sheet220was manufactured, copper was spattered to have a thickness of 1000 nm, and the conductive metal layer245(copper film) was laminated on thesubstrate230without plating copper. The resistlayer248on theconductive metal layer245was exposed in a line and space pattern of 0.3 mm in pitch and 9 μm in line width. Other than that, by using the same materials and the same steps as those of Example 2, theheating plate210was obtained. Theconductive pattern sheet220in theheating plate210was provided with theconductive pattern240including the thinconductive wires241that were arranged in the line and space pattern of 0.3 mm in pitch and 9 μm in line width. In theheating plate210in Example 5, since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 0.6Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate210was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.

In the manufacture of the heating plate in Example 6, a copper foil having a thickness of 6 μm was used similarly to Example 3. The resistlayer248on the copper foil was exposed in a line and space pattern of 0.4 mm in pitch and 1 μm in line width. Other than that, by using the same materials and the same steps as those of Example 3, there was obtained a heating plate with conductive pattern sheet including the conductive pattern having the thin conductive wires that were arranged in the line and space pattern of 0.4 mm in pitch and 1 μm in line width. In the heating plate in Example 6, disconnection occurred in a lot of locations, so that suitable heat generation was not obtained when the heating plate was powered. However, unless disconnection occurred, it is considered that an excellent see-through property can be obtained as well as suitable heat generation can be obtained.

In the manufacture of the heating plate in Example 7, a conductive metal layer, which included a spattered copper film and a plated copper, with a total thickness of 2 μm, was laminated on the substrate similarly to Example 2. The resistlayer248on the conductive metal layer was exposed in a line and space pattern of 1 mm in pitch and 15 μm in line width. Other than that, by the same steps as those of Example 2, there was obtained a heating plate with a conductive pattern including thin conductive wires that were arranged in the line and space pattern of 1 mm in pitch and 15 μm in line width. In the heating plate in Example 7, since copper wires were visible, an excellent see-through property could not be obtained. However, there could be obtained a see-through property which did not hinder driving of an automobile, for example.

In the manufacture of a heating plate in Comparative Example, a copper foil having a thickness of 10 μm was used similarly to Example 4. A resist layer on the copper foil was exposed in a line and space pattern of 3 mm in pitch and 8 μm in line width. Other than that, by the same steps as those of Example 4, there was obtained a heating plate with a conductive pattern including thin conductive wires that were arranged in the line and space pattern of 3 mm in pitch and 8 μm in line width. The heating plate in the Comparative Example had an excellent transparency. On the other hand, after being stored in a refrigerator, the heating plate in the Comparative Example was taken out and powered. In this case, increase of temperature at an intermediate between copper wires was slow, and it took more time than that of examples to defog the heating plate.

FIG. 1andFIGS. 57 to 70are views for explaining a fourth embodiment according to the present invention. In the fourth embodiment described below, a component corresponding to that of the first and second embodiments is shown by a symbol in300swith the same last two digits, and overlapped description is omitted.

FIG. 57is a view of a heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 58is a cross-sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 57.FIG. 59is a view showing conditions of respective member constituting the heating plate ofFIG. 58before the respective members are laminated. The heating plate in this embodiment is sometimes referred to as “laminated glass”.

FIG. 57shows aheating plate310when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 58is a cross-sectional view corresponding to a LVIII-LVIII line of theheating plate310ofFIG. 57. Theheating plate310includes a pair ofcurved glass plates311,312, a conductive pattern sheet (pattern sheet)320disposed between the pair ofcurved glass plates311,312, ajoint layer313that joins theglass plate311and theconductive pattern sheet320, and ajoint layer314that joins theglass plate312and theconductive pattern sheet320.

Theconductive pattern sheet320includes asubstrate330, a conductive pattern (conductive pattern member)340formed on thesubstrate330, awiring part15for powering theconductive pattern340, and aconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern340and thewiring part15.

In the example shown inFIGS. 57 and 58, theconductive pattern340is powered by apower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so that theconductive pattern340generates heat by means of resistance heat. The heat generated by theconductive pattern340is transmitted to theglass plates311,312through thejoint layers313,314, so that theglass plates311,312are warmed up. Thus, due drops on theglass plates311,312can be removed so that theglass plates311,312can be defogged. When there is snow or ice on theglass plates311,312, the snow or ice can be unfrozen. Thus, an excellent field of view of a passenger can be ensured.

In order to manufacture theheating plate310, as shown inFIG. 59, thecurved glass plate311, thejoint layer313, theconductive pattern sheet320, thejoint layer314and thecurved glass plate312are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized, so that thecurved glass plate311, theconductive pattern sheet320and thecurved glass plates312are joined through thejoint layers313,314.

Particularly when used as a front window, theglass plate311,312preferably has a high visible light transmittance in order not to hinder a field of view of a passenger. A material of such aglass plate311,312may be soda lime glass, blue plate glass and so on, for example. Theglass plate311,312preferably has a transmittance of 90% or more in a visible light area. The visible light transmittance of theglass plate311,312is specified as follows. Transmittance of light with measurement wavelength range of from 380 nm to 780 nm is measured by using a spectrophotometer (manufactured by Shimadzu Corporation, “UV-3100PC”, compliant with HS K 0115). The visible light transmittance is an average value of the transmittances at the respective wavelengths. The visible light transmittance may be lowered by partially or totally coloring theglass plate311,312, for example. In this case, direct sunlight can be shielded and an inside of the automobile is less visible from outside.

In addition, theglass plate311,312preferably has a thickness of not less than 1 mm and not more than 5 mm. With such a thickness, theglass plate311,312excellent in strength and optical properties can be obtained.

Theglass plates311,312and theconductive pattern sheet320are joined to each other through thejoint layers313,314, respectively. As such ajoint layer313,314, a layer made of a material having various adhesion properties or gluing (pressure sensitive adhesive) properties. In addition, thejoint layer313,314preferably has a high visible light transmittance. A typical joint layer may be a layer made of polyvinyl butyral (PVB), for example. Thejoint layer313,314preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.15 mm and not more than 0.7 mm.

Not limited to the illustrated example, theheating plate310may be provided with another function layer for exerting a specific function. In addition, one function layer may exert two or more functions. Alternatively, for example, a function may be given to at least one of theglass plate311,312of theheating plate310, thejoint layer313,314thereof, and thesubstrate330of theconductive pattern sheet320thereof, which is described later. The function that can be given toheating plate310may be an antireflection (AR) function, a hard coat (HC) function having an abrasion resistance, an infrared ray shield (reflection) function, an ultraviolet ray shield (reflection) function, a polarizing function, an antifouling function and so on, for example.

Next, theconductive pattern sheet320is described. Theconductive pattern sheet320includes thesubstrate330, theconductive pattern340disposed on thesubstrate330, thewiring part15for powering theconductive pattern240, and theconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern340and thewiring part15. Theconductive pattern sheet320may have a planar dimension substantially the same as that of theglass plate311,312so as to be placed all over theheating plate310. Alternatively, theconductive pattern sheet320may be placed over only a part of theheating plate310, such as a part in front of a driver's seat.

Thesubstrate330functions as a substrate that supports theconductive pattern340. Thesubstrate330is an electrically insulating substrate that transmits light of a wavelength (380 nm to 780 nm) of a visible light wavelength band, which is generally recognized as transparent. Thesubstrate330contains a thermoplastic resin.

A thermoplastic resin contained as a main component in thesubstrate330may be any thermoplastic resin as long as it transmits visible light. The thermoplastic resin may be an acryl resin made of, e.g., polymethyl methacrylate, a polyolefin resin made of e.g., polypropylene, a polyester resin made of, e.g., polyethylene terephthalate or polyethylene naphthalate, a cellulose-based resin made of, e.g., triacetyl cellulose (cellulose triacetate), polyvinyl chloride, polystyrene, a polycarbonate resin, an AS resin and so on, for example. In particular, an acryl resin and polyethylene terephthalate are preferred because of their excellent optical properties and moldability.

In addition, in consideration of support property during manufacture and light transmission of theconductive pattern340, thesubstrate330preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.02 mm and not more than 0.20 mm.

Theconductive pattern340is described with reference toFIGS. 60 to 62.FIG. 60is a plan view of theconductive pattern sheet320when viewed in a normal direction of a sheet plane thereof, showing an example of an arrangement pattern of theconductive pattern340.

Theconductive pattern340is powered by thepower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so as to generate heat by means of resistance heat. The heat is transmitted to theglass plate311,312through thejoint layers313,314, so that theglass plates311,312are warmed up.

Theconductive pattern340shown inFIG. 60is a member including thinconductive wires341that are arranged in a mesh pattern defining a number ofopenings343. Theconductive pattern340is a member that is also referred to as conductive mesh. Theconductive pattern340includes a plurality of connection elements344that extend between two branch points342to define theopenings343. Namely, the thinconductive wires341are an aggregation of a number of the connection elements344each forming the branch points342at both ends thereof. Particularly in the illustrated example, the three connection elements344are connected at equal angles at each branch point342, so that there are defined a number of theopenings343of the same honeycomb shape (hexagonal shape) each of which is surrounded by the six connection elements344.

In the illustrated example, theconductive pattern340includes the thinconductive wires341that are arranged in a mesh pattern in which theopenings343of the same honeycomb shape are regularly defined. However, not limited to the mesh pattern, theconductive pattern340may have the thinconductive wires341that are arranged in various mesh patterns such as in a mesh pattern (grid pattern) in which theopenings343of the same shape such as a triangular shape or a rectangular shape are regularly defined, a mesh pattern in which theopenings343of different shapes are regularly defined, a mesh pattern in which theopenings343of different shapes are irregularly defined, such as a Voronoi mesh pattern, and so on. In the case of a honeycomb pattern, current can be smoothly branched at the branch point342into two directions to change traveling directions. Thus, since current easily flows throughout theconductive pattern340, uniform heat generation occurs in theconductive pattern340as a whole, to thereby improve a see-through property.

In this embodiment, a copper film is used as a material for constituting such aconductive pattern240. A copper film means an electrolytic copper foil, a rolled copper foil, a copper film formed (deposited) by a spattering method, a vacuum deposition method and so on. Although the details are described later, theconductive pattern340is formed by patterning a copper film by an etching process.

FIG. 61is a sectional view corresponding to an A-A line ofFIG. 60, showing an example of a sectional shape of the thin conductive wire. The thin conductive wires341(connection elements344) constituting theconductive pattern340are formed on thesubstrate330. In the illustrated example, the thinconductive wire341has asurface341aon the side of thesubstrate330, asurface341bon the side opposed to thesubstrate330, andside surfaces341c,341d. The thinconductive wire341has substantially a rectangular section in general. In this embodiment, a line width W (herebelow simply as “width”) of the thinconductive wire341, i.e., the width W along the sheet plane of thesubstrate330is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm, preferably not less than 2 μm and not more than 15 μm. Thus, theconductive pattern340is seen transparent in general, and has an excellent see-through property. In addition, a height (thickness) H of the thinconductive wire341, i.e., the height (thickness) H along the normal direction to the sheet plane of thesubstrate330is preferably not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm, and more preferably not less than 1 μm and not more than 10 μm. Since the thinconductive wire341having such a height dimension, in addition to the line width W, is sufficiently thin, theconductive pattern340can be effectively made invisible.

InFIG. 61, the symbol P represents a pitch between the adjacent openings343(distance between centers of the adjacent openings343) in the honeycomb pattern of theconductive pattern340when it has a honeycomb pattern. The pitch P is preferably not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 7.0 mm, and more preferably not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm. When theconductive pattern340has a grid pattern, a pitch between adjacent rectangular openings in the grid pattern is preferably not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 7.0 mm, and more preferably not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm.

In addition, the thinconductive wire341includes a firstdark color layer346disposed on thesubstrate330, aconductive metal layer345disposed on the firstdark color layer346, and a seconddark color layer347disposed on theconductive metal layer345. In other words, the surface of theconductive metal layer345on the side of thesubstrate330is covered with the firstdark color layer346, and the surface of theconductive metal layer345on the side opposed to thesubstrate330and both side surfaces thereof are covered with the seconddark color layer347.

Theconductive metal layer345made of a metal material has relatively a high reflectance. When light is reflected on theconductive metal layer345forming theconductive metal wires341of theconductive pattern340, the reflected light may be visible, which hinders a field of view of a passenger. In addition, when theconductive metal layer345is visible from outside, design is sometimes impaired. Thus, the dark color layers346,347are disposed at least a part of the surface of theconductive metal layer345. The dark color layers346,347are layer having a visible light reflectance that is lower than that of theconductive metal layer345, and are black-colored dark color layers, for example. Due to the dark color layers346,347, theconductive metal layer345becomes less visible, whereby an excellent field of view of a passenger can be ensured. In addition, impairment of design when seen from outside can be prevented. However, such dark color layers346,347may be omitted. In this case, the width W of the thinconductive wire341is a width of the singleconductive metal layer345.

FIG. 62is a sectional view corresponding to the A-A line ofFIG. 60, showing another sectional shape of the thin conductive wire. In the illustrated example, the thin conductive wire341(connection element344) includes asurface341aon the side of thesubstrate330, asurface341bon the side opposed to thesubstrate330, andside surfaces341c,341d. Thesurface341aon the side of thesubstrate330and thesurface341bon the side opposed to thesubstrate330are in parallel. Theside surface341cforms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to theside surface341das a certain point in theside surface341cmoves away from thesubstrate330along the normal direction of the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet320. Theside surface341dalso forms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to theside surface341cas a certain point in theside surface341dmoves away from thesubstrate330along the normal direction of the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet320. The thinconductive wire341has substantially a trapezoidal section in general. Namely, the width of the thinconductive wire341changes to narrow as a certain point in the thinconductive wire341moves away from thesubstrate330along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet320. In addition, similarly to the example shown inFIG. 61, the surface of theconductive metal layer345on the side of thesubstrate330is covered with the firstdark color layer346, and the surface of theconductive metal layer345on the side opposed to thesubstrate330and both side surfaces thereof are covered with the seconddark color layer347.

FIG. 62shows that the thinconductive wire341has substantially a trapezoidal section in general, and that the width of the thinconductive wire341changes to narrow as a certain point in the thinconductive wire341moves away from thesubstrate330along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet320. However, not limited thereto, the side surfaces341c,341dmay be formed of curved lines, or may be formed in a tier-like shape. In addition, the width of the thinconductive wire341may be partially wider as a certain point in the thinconductive wire341moves away from thesubstrate330along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet320. Namely, when the section of the thinconductive wire341is seen generally and comprehensively, it is sufficient that the width of theconductive wire341changes to narrow as a certain point in the thinconductive wire341moves away from thesubstrate330along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet320.

In the example shown inFIG. 62, since the width of the thinconductive wire341changes to narrow as a certain point in the thinconductive wire341moves away from thesubstrate330along the normal direction of theconductive pattern sheet320, when theglass plates311,312, thejoint layers313,314and theconductive pattern sheet320are laminated, theconductive pattern340can be reliably embedded in thejoint layer313, and bubbles in an interface between theconductive pattern340and thejoint layer313can be restrained from remaining therein.

Next, an example of a manufacturing method of theheating plate310is described with reference toFIGS. 63 to 70.FIGS. 63 to 70are sectional views showing the example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate310in sequence, particularly views for explaining manufacture of theconductive pattern sheet320in detail. After theconductive pattern sheet320is manufactured, theconductive pattern sheet320is sandwiched between theglass plates311,312so that theheating plate310is manufactured.

In order to manufacture theconductive pattern sheet320, as shown inFIG. 63, thesubstrate330is firstly prepared. Thesubstrate330is an electrically insulating substrate that transmits light of a wavelength (380 nm to 780 nm) of a visible light wavelength band, which is generally recognized as transparent. Thesubstrate330contains a thermoplastic resin.

Then, as shown inFIG. 64, the firstdark color346is disposed on thesubstrate330. For example, the first dark color layer363can be disposed on thesubstrate330by a plating method including electrolytic plating and electroless plating, a spattering method, a vacuum deposition method, an ion plating method, a PVD method and a CVD method other than these methods, or a combination method of the two or more methods. Various known materials may be used as material of the firstdark color layer346. For example, the material may be copper nitride, copper oxide, nickel nitride and so on.

Then, as shown inFIG. 65, theconductive metal layer345is disposed on the firstdark color layer346. Theconductive metal layer345is a layer formed of a copper film. When an electrolytic copper foil or a rolled copper foil is used to form theconductive metal layer345, theconductive metal layer345is disposed on the firstdark color layer346through a two-pack mixture type urethane ester-based adhesive (illustration omitted), for example. When an electrolytic copper foil is used, an electrolytic copper foil of not more than 7 μm is preferably used in order to make thin the thinconductive wire341as much as possible. When a copper film formed by a spattering method or a vacuum vapor deposition method is used for forming theconductive metal layer345, theconductive metal layer345is disposed by depositing a film on the firstdark color layer346through an adhesive primer (illustration omitted). When a copper film formed by a spattering method or a vacuum vapor deposition method is used as theconductive metal layer345, an electrolytic plated layer may be deposited on the copper film, so as to form theconductive metal layer345including the copper film formed by a spattering method or a vacuum vapor deposition method, and the electrolytic plated layer. As a film deposition method for a copper film, a spattering method, a vacuum vapor deposition method, an ion plating method, a PVD method other than these methods or a combination method thereof may be employed. In addition, as described above, a copper film may be formed by an electrolytic plating method. Moreover, it is possible to employ a method in which an electrolytic plating method is combined to the above described spattering method, the vacuum vapor deposition method, the ion plating method and so on.

Then, as shown inFIG. 66, the resistlayer348is disposed on theconductive metal layer345. The resistlayer348is a resin layer having a photosensitivity to light of a predetermined wavelength range, such as ultraviolet light. The resin layer may be formed by adhering a resin film, or may be formed by applying a flowable resin. A concrete photosensitive property of the resistlayer348is not specifically limited. For example, a photo-curing type photosensitive material or a photo-dissolving photosensitive material may be used as the resistlayer348.

Thereafter, as shown inFIG. 67, the resistlayer348is patterned to form the resistpattern349. Various known methods may be used as the method of patterning the resistpattern349. In this example, a resin layer having a photosensitivity to light of a predetermined wavelength range, such as ultraviolet light, is used as the resistlayer348, and a known photolithographic technique is used for patterning the resistlayer348. Firstly, a mask which opens a part to be patterned or a mask which shields a part to be patterned is placed on the resistlayer348, and the resistlayer348is irradiated with ultraviolet light through the mask. Thereafter, the part shielded by the mask from the ultraviolet light or the part irradiated with the ultraviolet light is removed by means of developing or the like. Thus, the patterned resistpattern349can be formed. A laser patterning method without mask can be used.

Then, as shown inFIG. 68, theconductive metal layer345and the firstdark color layer346are etched with the resistpattern349serving as a mask. Due to this etching process, theconductive metal layer345and the firstdark color layer346are patterned substantially similar to the resistpattern349. The etching method is not particularly limited, and a known method may be employed. The known method may be a wet etching method using etchant, a plasma etching method and so on. Thereafter, as shown inFIG. 69, the resistpattern349is removed.

Finally, the seconddark color layer347is formed on thesurface341bof theconductive metal layer345on the side opposed to thesubstrate330and the side surfaces341c,341d. The seconddark color layer347is formed by, e.g., subjecting a part of a material constituting theconductive metal layer345to a darkening treatment (blackening treatment). Namely, in this case, the seconddark color layer347made of metallic oxide or metallic sulfide can be formed from the part constituting theconductive metal layer345. Alternatively, the seconddark color layer347as a coating film made of a dark color material or a plated layer made of nickel or chrome may be disposed on the surface of theconductive metal layer345. In addition, the surface of theconductive metal layer345may be roughened, and the seconddark color layer347may be disposed thereon.

In this example, the seconddark color layer347is formed on thesurface341bof theconductive metal layer345on the side opposed to thesubstrate330and the side surfaces341c,341d. However, not limited thereto, the seconddark color layer347may be formed only on thesurface341bof theconductive metal layer345on the side opposed to thesubstrate330, or only on the side surfaces341c,341dof theconductive metal layer345.

When the seconddark color layer347is formed only on thesurface341bof theconductive metal layer345on the side opposed to thesubstrate330, after the step shown inFIG. 65, for example, the seconddark color layer347and the resistlayer348are disposed in this order on theconductive metal layer345, and the resistpattern349is formed by patterning the resistlayer348. Thereafter, the seconddark color layer347, theconductive metal layer345and the firstdark color layer346are etched with the resistpattern349serving as a mask.

Alternatively, when the seconddark color layer347is formed only on the side surfaces341c,341dof theconductive metal layer345, after the step shown inFIG. 68, for example, the seconddark color layer347is formed without removing the resistpattern349. After that, the resistpattern349is removed.

When the firstdark color layer346is not necessary, the step of disposing the firstdark color layer346on thesubstrate330, which is shown inFIG. 64, is omitted.

Then, after the aboveconductive pattern sheet320is manufactured, thecurved glass plate311, thejoint layer313, theconductive pattern sheet320, thejoint layer314and thecurved glass plate312are superposed in this order and heated/pressurized, so that theheating plate310is manufactured. Theheating plate310includes the pair ofcurved glass plates311,312, theconductive pattern sheet320disposed between the pair ofcurved glass plates311,312, thejoint layer313disposed between theglass plate311and theconductive pattern sheet320to join theglass plate311and theconductive pattern sheet320, and thejoint layer314disposed between theglass plate312and theconductive pattern sheet320to join theglass plate312and theconductive pattern sheet320. Theconductive pattern sheet320includes thesubstrate330and theconductive pattern340formed on thesubstrate330. A desired pattern is easily given precisely to theconductive pattern340by the aforementioned patterning method. Thus, it is possible to manufacture theheating plate310having an excellent optical property.

According to theheating plate310in the fourth embodiment, theconductive pattern340includes the thinconductive wires341formed of a patterned copper film and arranged in a mesh pattern. The line width of the thinconductive wire341is formed to be not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm. Thus, since the thinconductive wire341is sufficiently thin, an excellent see-through property can be obtained. In addition, a volume resistivity of the thinconductive wire341made of copper is low. Thus, although the line width is thin, suitable heat generation can be obtained when the thinconductive wire341is powered.

The aforementioned fourth embodiment may be variously modified.

For example, theconductive pattern340of theconductive pattern sheet320may be provided, not on the surface of thesubstrate330on the side of theglass plate311, but on the surface on the side of theglass plate312. Alternatively, theconductive pattern340may be provided both on the surfaces of thesubstrate330on the side of theglass plate311and on the side of theglass plate312.

Theheating plate310may be used in a rear window, a side window and a sun roof of theautomobile1. In addition, theheating plate310may be used in a window of a vehicle other than an automobile, such as a railway, an aircraft, a vessel, a space vessel and so on.

Further, in addition to a vehicle, theheating plate310may be used in a part by which an inside and an outside is partitioned, such as a window of a building, a store and a house.

Although some modification examples of the above fourth embodiment are described, the modification examples can be naturally combined with one another for application.

Although the fourth embodiment is described in more detail herebelow by using examples, the fourth embodiment is not limited to these examples.

Theheating plate310in Expel 1 was manufactured as follows. As thesubstrate330, there was firstly prepared a PET (polyethylene terephthalate) film (manufactured by TOYOBO Co., Ltd A4300) having a thickness of 100 μm, a width of 98 cm and a length of 100 m. A two-pack mixture type urethane ester-based adhesive was applied to thesubstrate330by a gravure coater, such that a thickness of the cured adhesive became 7 μm. Then, an electrolytic copper foil having a thickness of 10 μm, a width of 97 cm and a length of 80 m was laminated as theconductive metal layer345on thesubstrate330through an adhesive. The electrolytic copper foil and thesubstrate330were maintained for 4 days in an environment of 50° C., so that the electrolytic copper foil was secured on thesubstrate330.

Thereafter, the resistlayer348was laminated on the electrolytic copper foil (conductive metal layer345), and was exposed in a grid pattern of 1.5 mm in pitch and 4 μm in line width. Then, an unnecessary resist was cleaned (removed) to form the resistpattern349. The electrolytic copper foil was etched with the resistpattern349serving as a mask. Then, after cleaning, there was obtained theconductive pattern sheet320with theconductive pattern340including the thinconductive wires341that were arranged in the grid pattern. In theconductive pattern sheet320, a pitch of openings in the grid pattern was 1.5 mm, and a line width of the thinconductive wire341was 4 μm.

Then, the thus obtainedconductive pattern sheet320was cut to have an upper base of 125 cm, a lower base of 155 cm and a height of 96 cm. Then, theconductive pattern sheet320was disposed between theglass plates311,312having a shape, when viewed in a normal direction, which has an upper base of 120 cm, a lower base of 150 cm and height of 95 cm, through thejoint layers313,314formed of PBV adhesive sheets having the same size as that of theglass plates311,312. Then, the laminate of these members was heated/pressurized (vacuum laminated). Then, the joint layer and theconductive pattern sheet320projecting from between theglass plates311,312were trimmed so as to obtain theheating plate310according to Example 1.

Upon inspection of theheating plate310according to Example 1 with eyes, theheating plate310was found to have an excellent see-through property. In addition, light beam stripes were not conspicuous. Light beam stripes are visible stripes of light. When a heating wire (thin conductive wire) in a defroster apparatus is thick, light beam strips tend to be large and thus can be conspicuous. Since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 0.7Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate310was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.

Theheating plate310in Example 2 was manufactured as follows. As thesubstrate330, there was firstly prepared a PET (polyethylene terephthalate) film (manufactured by TOYOBO Co., Ltd A4300) having a thickness of 100 μm, a width of 98 cm and a length of 100 m. Copper was spattered to thesubstrate330though an adhesive primer such that the copper had a thickness of 500 nm. Further, copper was laminated by plating on the spattered copper, so as to obtain a conductive metal layer (copper film)345formed of the spattered copper film and the plated copper, with a total thickness of 2 μm.

Thereafter, the resistlayer348was laminated on theconductive metal layer345, and was exposed in a grid pattern of 0.3 mm in pitch and 3 μm in line width. Then, an unnecessary resist was cleaned (removed) to form the resistpattern349. The copper film was etched with the resistpattern349serving as a mask. Then, after cleaning, there was obtained theconductive pattern sheet320with theconductive pattern340including the thinconductive wires341that were arranged in the grid pattern. In theconductive pattern sheet320, a pitch of openings in the grid pattern was 0.3 mm, and a line width of the thinconductive wire341was 3 μm.

Then, the thus obtainedconductive pattern sheet320was cut to have an upper base of 125 cm, a lower base of 155 cm and a height of 96 cm. Then, theconductive pattern sheet320was disposed between theglass plates311,312having a shape, when viewed in a normal direction, which has an upper base of 120 cm, a lower base of 150 cm and height of 95 cm, through thejoint layers313,314formed of PBV adhesive sheets having the same size as that of theglass plates311,312. Then, the laminate of these members was heated/pressurized (vacuum laminated). Then, the joint layer and theconductive pattern sheet320projecting from between theglass plates311,312were trimmed so as to obtain theheating plate310according to Example 2.

Upon inspection of theheating plate310according to Example 2 with eyes, theheating plate310was found to have an excellent see-through property. In addition, light beam stripes were not conspicuous. Since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 0.9Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate310was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.

In the manufacture of theheating plate310in Example 3, when theconductive pattern sheet320was manufactured, a copper foil having a thickness of 6 μm was used. The resistlayer348on the copper foil (conductive metal layer345) was exposed in a grid pattern of 1 mm in pitch and 6 μm in line width. Other than that, by using the same materials and the same steps as those of Example 1, theheating plate310was obtained. In theconductive pattern sheet320of theheating plate310, a pitch of openings in the grid pattern was 1 mm, and a line width of the thinconductive wire341was 6 μm. In theheating plate310in Example 3, since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 0.5Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate310was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.

In the manufacture of theheating plate310in Example 4, when theconductive pattern sheet320was manufactured, a copper foil having a thickness of 10 μm was used. The resistlayer348on the copper foil (conductive metal layer345) was exposed in a grid pattern of 1.7 mm in pitch and 8 μm in line width. Other than that, by using the same materials and the same steps as those of Example 1, theheating plate310was obtained. In theconductive pattern sheet320of theheating plate310, a pitch of openings in the grid pattern was 1.7 mm, and a line width of the thinconductive wire341was 8 μm. In theheating plate310in Example 4, since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 0.4Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate310was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.

In the manufacture of theheating plate310in Example 5, when theconductive pattern sheet320was manufactured, copper was spattered to have a thickness of 1000 nm, and the conductive metal layer345(copper film) was laminated on thesubstrate330without plating copper. Theconductive metal layer345was exposed in a grid pattern of 0.3 mm in pitch and 9 μm in line width. Other than that, by using the same materials and the same steps as those of Example 2, theheating plate310was obtained. In theconductive pattern sheet320of theheating plate310, a pitch of openings in the grid pattern was 0.3 mm, and a line width of the thinconductive wire341was 9 μm. In theheating plate310in Example 5, since a resistance between thewiring parts15was 0.6Ω, it was confirmed that suitable heat generation could be obtained when theheating plate310was powered. The above resistance between thewiring parts15was a resistance in a case where a current of 12V was applied.

The below Table 1 shows a line width of the thinconductive wire341, a thickness of a copper film forming the thinconductive wire341, a pitch of openings in the grid pattern, a measured resistance, a voltage applied upon measurement and a heating value upon application of the voltage, of the respective Examples 1 to 5. In Examples 1 to 5, a suitable heat value of from 150 to 310 W could be obtained.

TABLE 1LineAppliedHeatingWidthThicknessPitchResistanceVoltageValue[μm][μm][mm][Q][V][W]Ex. 14101.50.712170Ex. 2320.30.912150Ex. 36610.512240Ex. 48101.70.412310Ex. 5910.30.612190

FIG. 1andFIGS. 71 to 86are views for explaining a fifth embodiment according to the present invention. In the fifth embodiment described below, a component corresponding to that of the first to fourth embodiments is shown by a symbol in 400s with the same last two digits, and overlapped description is omitted.

FIG. 71is a view of a heating plate when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 72is a cross-sectional view of the heating plate ofFIG. 71.FIG. 73is a view showing conditions of respective member constituting the heating plate ofFIG. 72before the respective members are laminated. The heating plate in this embodiment is sometimes referred to as “laminated glass”.

FIG. 71shows aheating plate410when viewed in a normal direction of a plate plane thereof.FIG. 72is a cross-sectional view corresponding to a LXXII-LXXII line of theheating plate410ofFIG. 71. In the example shown inFIG. 72, afirst glass plate411, a firstjoint layer413, a conductive pattern sheet (pattern sheet)420, a secondjoint layer414and thesecond glass plate412are laminated in this order to form theheating plate410. Theconductive pattern sheet420includes asubstrate430, and a conductive pattern (conductive pattern member)440disposed on thesubstrate430. Theconductive pattern440includes thinconductive wires441that are arranged in a pattern. As shown inFIG. 74, in this embodiment, the thinconductive wires441are arranged in a mesh pattern, which is described in more detail below.

In addition, as described inFIG. 71, theheating plate410includes awiring part15for powering theconductive pattern440, and aconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern440and thewiring part15. In the illustrated example, theconductive pattern440is powered by apower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so that theconductive pattern440generates heat by means of resistance heat. The heat generated by theconductive pattern440is transmitted to theglass plates411,412through thejoint layers413,414, so that theglass plates411,412are warmed up. Thus, due drops on theglass plates411,412can be removed so that theglass plates411,412can be defogged. When there is snow or ice on theglass plates411,412, the snow or ice can be unfrozen. Thus, an excellent field of view of a passenger can be ensured.

In order to manufacture theheating plate410, as shown inFIG. 73, thecurved glass plate411, the firstjoint layer413, theconductive pattern sheet420, the secondjoint layer414and thecurved glass plate412are superposed in this order, and heated/pressurized, so that thecurved glass plate411, theconductive pattern sheet420and thecurved glass plates412are joined by thejoint layers413,414.

The respective layers of theheating plate410are described below.

Theglass plate411,412is firstly described. Particularly when used as a front window, theglass plate411,412preferably has a high visible light transmittance in order not to hinder a field of view of a passenger. A material of such aglass plate411,412may be soda lime glass, blue plate glass and so on, for example. Theglass plate411,412preferably has a transmittance of 90% or more in a visible light area. The visible light transmittance of theglass plate411,412is specified as follows. Transmittance of light with measurement wavelength range of from 380 nm to 780 nm is measured by using a spectrophotometer (manufactured by Shimadzu Corporation, “UV-3100PC”, compliant with JIS K 0115). The visible light transmittance is an average value of the transmittances at the respective wavelengths. The visible light transmittance may be lowered by partially or totally coloring theglass plate411,412, for example. In this case, direct sunlight can be shielded and an inside of the automobile is less visible from outside.

In addition, theglass plate411,412preferably has a thickness of not less than 1 mm and not more than 5 mm. With such a thickness, theglass plate411,412excellent in strength and optical properties can be obtained.

Next, thejoint layers413,414are described. The first joint layer r413is disposed between thefirst glass plate411and theconductive pattern sheet420to join thefirst glass plate411and theconductive pattern sheet420to each other. In more detail, in this example, as shown inFIGS. 72 and 73, the firstjoint layer413is disposed between thefirst glass plate411and theconductive pattern440of theconductive pattern sheet420to be directly in contact with thefirst glass plate411and the thinconductive wires441, so as to join theconductive pattern440to thefirst glass plate411through the thinconductive wires441with which the firstjoint layer413is in contact. Strictly speaking, the firstjoint layer413is directly in contact with thefirst glass plate411, the thinconductive wires441and asurface431aof thesubstrate430, so as to join theconductive pattern440to thefirst glass plate411through the thinconductive wires441and thesurface431awith which the firstjoint layer413is in contact.

In addition, the secondjoint layer414is disposed between thesecond glass plate412and theconductive pattern sheet420to join thesecond glass plate412and theconductive sheet420to each other. In more detail, in this example, the secondjoint layer414is disposed between thesecond glass plate412and thesubstrate430of theconductive pattern sheet420to be directly in contact with thesecond glass plate412and thesubstrate430, so as to join thesubstrate430and thesecond glass plate412.

As such ajoint layer413,414, a layer made of a material having various adhesion properties or gluing (pressure sensitive adhesive) properties can be employed. In addition, thejoint layer413,414preferably has a high visible light transmittance. A typical joint layer may be a layer made of polyvinyl butyral (PVB), for example. Thejoint layer413,414preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.15 mm and not more than 1 mm.

Not limited to the illustrated example, theheating plate410may be provided with another function layer for exerting a specific function. In addition, one function layer may exert two or more functions. Alternatively, for example, a function may be given to at least one of theglass plate411,412of theheating plate410, thejoint layer413,414thereof, and thesubstrate430of theconductive pattern sheet420thereof, which is described later. The function that can be given toheating plate410may be an antireflection (AR) function, a hard coat (HC) function having an abrasion resistance, an infrared ray shield (reflection) function, an ultraviolet ray shield (reflection) function, a polarizing function, an antifouling function and so on, for example.

Next, theconductive pattern sheet420is described. As shown inFIGS. 71 and 72, theconductive pattern sheet420in this embodiment includes a sheet-like substrate430having a pair ofopposed surfaces431a,431b, theconductive pattern440disposed on thesurface431aof the pair ofopposed surfaces431a,431bof thesubstrate430, thewiring part15for powering theconductive pattern440, and theconnection part16connecting theconductive pattern440and thewiring part15. Theconductive pattern sheet420may have a planar dimension substantially the same as that of theglass plate411,412so as to be placed all over theheating plate410. Alternatively, theconductive pattern sheet420may be placed over only a part of theheating plate410, such as a part in front of a driver's seat.

Thesubstrate430functions as a substrate that supports theconductive pattern440. Thesubstrate430is an electrically insulating substrate that transmits light of a wavelength (380 nm to 780 nm) of a visible light wavelength band, which is generally recognized as transparent. Thesubstrate430contains a thermoplastic resin.

A thermoplastic resin contained as a main component in thesubstrate430may be any thermoplastic resin as long as it transmits visible light. The thermoplastic resin may be an acryl resin made of, e.g., polymethyl methacrylate, a polyolefin resin made of e.g., polypropylene, a polyester resin made of, e.g., polyethylene terephthalate or polyethylene naphthalate, a cellulose-based resin made of, e.g., triacetyl cellulose (cellulose triacetate), polyvinyl chloride, polystyrene, a polycarbonate resin, an AS resin and so on, for example. In particular, an acryl resin and polyethylene terephthalate are preferred because of their excellent optical properties and moldability.

In addition, in consideration of light transmittance, suitable support property of theconductive pattern440, thesubstrate430preferably has a thickness of not less than 0.02 mm and not more than 0.20 mm.

FIG. 74is a plan view showing an example of an arrangement pattern of theconductive pattern440. Theconductive pattern440is powered by thepower source7, such as a battery, through thewiring part15and theconnection part16, so as to generate heat by means of resistance heat. The heat is transmitted to theglass plates411,412through thejoint layers413,414, so that theglass plates411,412are warmed up.

Theconductive pattern440shown inFIG. 74is a member including the thinconductive wires441that are arranged in a mesh pattern defining a number ofopenings443. Theconductive pattern440is a member that is also referred to as conductive mesh. Theconductive pattern440includes the plurality of connectionconductive wires441that extend between twobranch points442to define theopenings443. Namely, theconductive pattern440is an aggregation of a number of the thinconductive wires441each forming the branch points442at both ends thereof. Particularly in the illustrated example, the three thinconductive wires441are connected at equal angles at eachbranch point442, so that there are defined a number of theopenings443of the same honeycomb shape (hexagonal shape) each of which is surrounded by the sixconnection elements441.

In the illustrated example, theconductive pattern440includes the thinconductive wires441that are arranged in a mesh pattern in which theopenings443of the same honeycomb shape are regularly defined. However, not limited to the mesh pattern, theconductive pattern440may have the thinconductive wires441that are arranged in various mesh patterns such as in a mesh pattern (grid pattern) in which theopenings443of the same shape such as a triangular shape or a rectangular shape are regularly defined, a mesh pattern in which theopenings443of different shapes are regularly defined, a mesh pattern in which theopenings443of different shapes are irregularly defined, such as a Voronoi mesh pattern, and so on. In addition, theconductive pattern440may have a line and space pattern formed by a plurality of the thinconductive wires441that are arranged in one direction.

Theconductive pattern440may be made of one or more of gold, silver, copper, platinum, aluminum, chrome, molybdenum, nickel, titanium, palladium, indium, tungsten and an alloy thereof. Theconductive pattern440is formed of a metal film in which the thinconductive wires441are patterned by etching. Theconductive pattern440may include a thin wire, i.e., a connection wire connecting the adjacent thinconductive wires441.

FIG. 75is a sectional view showing the A-A line ofFIG. 74, showing a sectional shape of the thinconductive wire441.FIG. 75shows the sectional shape of the thinconductive wire441in a direction perpendicular to an extension direction of the thin conductive wire441(referred to simply as “sectional shape” or “section” herebelow). The thinconductive wires441constituting theconductive pattern440are formed on the substrate430(surface431a). In the illustrated example, the thinconductive wire441includes asurface441aon the side of thesubstrate430, asurface441bon the side opposed to thesubstrate430, andside surfaces441c,441d. In the illustrated example, thesurface441aon the side of thesubstrate430and thesurface441bon the side opposed to thesubstrate430are in parallel. Theside surface441cforms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to theside surface441das a certain point in theside surface441cmoves away from thesubstrate430along a normal direction of the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet420. Theside surface441dalso forms a tapered surface that is tapered to come close to theside surface441cas a certain point in theside surface441dmoves away from thesubstrate430along the normal direction of the sheet plane of theconductive pattern sheet420. Namely, the thinconductive wire441has substantially a trapezoidal section in general, in the sectional view perpendicular to the extension direction thereof.

More specifically, the thinconductive wire441is formed such that a line width thereof narrows along the normal direction to the sheet plane of thesubstrate430, i.e., the line width narrows as a certain point in the thinconductive wire441moves away outward from thesurface431a. In addition, as shown inFIG. 72, when theconductive pattern sheet420is incorporated in theheating plate410, the thinconductive wire441is formed such that its line width narrows as a certain point in the thinconductive wire441comes close to thefirst glass plate411located on the side of the firstjoint layer413in contact with the thin conductive wire441(the thinconductive wire441is formed such that its line gradually becomes smaller towards thefirst glass plate411located on the side of the firstjoint layer413in contact with the thin conductive wire441).

FIG. 76AandFIG. 76Bare enlarged views of the sectional shape of the thinconductive wire441shown inFIG. 75.FIG. 76Ashows, in the trapezoidal sectional shape of the thinconductive wire441, an angle α which is defined by a line segment forming a sidewall of the thinconductive wire441, which extends from an end of a lower base (surface441a) to an end of an upper base (surface441b), with respect to a direction extending along the lower base. The angle α is preferably an angle in a range between not less than 40 degrees and not more than 85 degrees. When the angle α is less than 40 degrees, suitable heat generation is difficult to be obtained unless a line width of the thinconductive wire441is increased. As a result, the thinconductive wire441having a larger width may deteriorate visibility of theheating plate410. Thus, the angle α is preferably not less than 40 degrees.

FIG. 76Ashows an example in which the sectional shape of the thinconductive wire441is a neat trapezoidal shape. However, as shown inFIG. 76B, there is a possibility that the side surfaces441c,441dare formed of curved lines because of manufacturing conditions and so on. In the present invention, such a shape is included in a concept of trapezoidal shape. Also in this case, as shown inFIG. 76B, the angle α is specified as an angle defined by the line segment which extends from the end of the lower base (surface441a) to the end of the upper base (surface441b), with respect to the direction extending along the lower base. This angle α is also preferably not less than 40 degrees and not more than 85 degrees. In this embodiment, the sectional shape of the thinconductive wire441is trapezoidal. However, as long as the thinconductive wire441is formed such that its line width narrows as a certain point in the thinconductive wire441comes close to thefirst glass plate411, the thinconductive wire441may have a tier-like shape, for example.

In a case where the thinconductive wire441is formed such that its line width narrows as a certain point in the thinconductive wire441comes close to thefirst glass plate411located on the side of the firstjoint layer413in contact with the thinconductive wire441, when theglass plates411,412, thejoint layers413,414and theconductive pattern sheet420are laminated, the joint layer421can easily get into a root side of the thinconductive wire441. As a result it can be restrained that bubbles remain around the sidewalls (surfaces441c,442d) of the thinconductive wire441.

InFIG. 75, Wmaxrepresents a line width of the thinconductive wire441on the root along the sheet plane of thesubstrate430, showing a line width of a part having a largest width of the thin conductive wire441(referred to as “maximum width” herebelow). In this embodiment, the maximum width Wmaxof the thinconductive wire441is not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm. The maximum width Wmaxis preferably not less than 2 μm and not more than 20 μm, and more preferably not less than 2 μm and not more than 15 μm. Thus, theconductive pattern440is seen transparent in general, and has an excellent see-through property. In addition, a height (thickness) H of the thinconductive wire441, i.e., the height (thickness) H along the normal direction to the sheet plane of thesubstrate430is preferably not less than 1 μm and not more than 20 μm, and more preferably not less than 1 μm and not more than 12 μm. Since the thinconductive wire441having such a height dimension, in addition to the line width Wmax, is sufficiently thin, theconductive pattern440can be effectively made invisible.

InFIG. 75, the symbol P represents a pitch between the adjacent openings443(distance between centers of the adjacent openings443) in the honeycomb pattern of theconductive pattern440when it has a honeycomb pattern. The pitch P is preferably not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm. The pitch P may be not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 7.0 mm. When theconductive pattern440has a grid pattern, a pitch between adjacent rectangular openings in the grid pattern is preferably not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm. Also in this case, the pitch may be not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 7.0 mm. In addition, when theconductive pattern440has a line and space pattern, a pitch, which is a distance between the adjacent thinconductive wires441, is preferably not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 2 mm. Also in this case, the pitch P may be not less than 0.3 mm and not more than 7.0 mm.

In addition, in the illustrated example, the thinconductive wire441includes a firstdark color layer446disposed on thesubstrate430, aconductive metal layer445disposed on the firstdark color layer446, and a seconddark color layer447disposed on theconductive metal layer445. In other words, the surface of theconductive metal layer445on the side of thesubstrate430is covered with the firstdark color layer446, and the surface of theconductive metal layer445on the side opposed to thesubstrate430and both side surfaces thereof are covered with the seconddark color layer447.

Theconductive metal layer445made of a metal material has relatively a high reflectance. When light is reflected on theconductive metal layer445forming theconductive metal wires441of theconductive pattern440, the reflected light may be visible, which hinders a field of view of a passenger. In addition, when theconductive metal layer445is visible from outside, design is sometimes impaired. Thus, the dark color layers446,447are disposed at least a part of the surface of theconductive metal layer445. The dark color layers446,447are layer having a visible light reflectance that is lower than that of theconductive metal layer445, and are black-colored dark color layers, for example. Due to the dark color layers446,447, theconductive metal layer445becomes less visible, whereby an excellent field of view of a passenger can be ensured. In addition, impairment of design when seen from outside can be prevented. However, such dark color layers446,447may be omitted.

Next, an example of a manufacturing method of theheating plate410is described with reference toFIGS. 77 to 86.FIGS. 77 to 86are sectional views showing the example of the manufacturing method of theheating plate410in sequence. In particular,FIGS. 77 to 85are views for explaining manufacture of theconductive pattern sheet420in detail.FIG. 86shows that, after theconductive pattern sheet420is manufactured, theconductive pattern sheet420is sandwiched between theglass plates411,412so that theheating plate410is manufactured.

In order to manufacture theconductive pattern sheet420, as shown inFIG. 77, there is firstly prepared ametal foil450having a pair ofopposed surfaces450a,450b. Themetal foil450will form theconductive metal layer445of the thinconductive wire441. Themetal foil450may be a foil made of gold, silver, copper, platinum, aluminum, chrome, molybdenum, nickel, titanium, palladium, indium, tungsten and an alloy thereof, for example. A thickness of themetal foil450may be not less than 1 μm and not more than 60 μm.

Then, as shown inFIG. 78, in the illustrated example, adark color film460, which will form the firstdark color layer446of the thinconductive wire441, is formed on thesurface450bof themetal foil450. In this example, thedark color film460is made of chrome oxide. When thedark color film460to be formed on themetal foil450is made of chrome oxide, thedark color film460may be deposited by a spattering method or a vacuum vapor deposition method, for example, or may be formed by a treatment with a solution of sodium chlorite, sodium hydroxide and trisodium phosphate. In addition, for example, thedark color film460may be formed by subjecting a part of a material constituting themetal foil450to a darkening treatment (blackening treatment), and the firstdark color film460made of metallic oxide or metallic sulfide can be formed from the part constituting themetal foil450. In addition, thedark color film460may be made of copper nitride, copper oxide, nickel nitride and so on.

Then, as shown inFIG. 79, thesubstrate430is prepared. Thesubstrate430and themetal foil450are located such that thesurface431aof thesubstrate430and thesurface450bof themetal foil450on which thedark color film460was formed face each other. Thereafter, as shown inFIG. 80, themetal foil450is laminated on thesurface431aof thesubstrate430through an adhesive layer. Thesubstrate430may have a thickness of not less than 0.02 mm and not more than 0.20 mm, and may be made of polyethylene terephthalate, polyethylene naphthalate, polycarbonate, polystyrene, cyclic polyolefin and so on.

Then, as shown inFIG. 81, the resistlayer448is disposed on themetal foil450. The resistlayer448is a resin layer having a photosensitivity to light of a predetermined wavelength range, such as ultraviolet light. The resin layer may be formed by adhering a resin film, or may be formed by applying a flowable resin. A concrete photosensitive property of the resistlayer448is not specifically limited. For example, a photo-curing type photosensitive material or a photo-dissolving photosensitive material may be used as the resistlayer448.

Thereafter, as shown inFIG. 82, the resistlayer448is patterned to form (laminate) a resistpattern449. Various known methods may be used as the method of patterning the resistpattern449. In this example, a resin layer having a photosensitivity to light of a predetermined wavelength range, such as ultraviolet light, is used as the resistlayer448, and a known photolithographic technique is used for patterning the resistlayer448. Firstly, a mask which opens a part to be patterned or a mask which shields a part to be patterned is placed on the resistlayer448, and the resistlayer448is irradiated with ultraviolet light through the mask. Thereafter, the part shielded by the mask from the ultraviolet light or the part irradiated with the ultraviolet light is developed and removed by means of solution such as a water. Thereafter, the remaining resistlayer448is subjected to a curing process such as a heating process or a chrome film curing process and so on, and is then baked at a predetermined temperature. Thus, the patterned resistpattern449can be formed.

Then, as shown inFIG. 83, themetal foil450including thedark color film460is etched with the resistpattern449serving as a mask. Due to this etching process, themetal foil450including thedark color film460is patterned substantially similar to the resistpattern449. As a result, theconductive metal layer445, which will form a part of the thinconductive wire441, is formed from the patternedmetal foil450. In addition, the firstdark color layer446, which will form a part of the thinconductive wire441, is formed from the patterneddark color film460. Theconductive metal layer445is formed such that its line width narrows along the normal direction to the sheet plane of thesubstrate430, i.e., the line width narrows as a certain point in the thinconductive wire441moves away outward from thesurface431a. The etching method is not particularly limited, and a known method may be employed. The known method may be a wet etching method using etchant, a plasma etching method and so on.

In this embodiment, in order that the line width of theconductive metal layer445has a desired shape, i.e., the line width narrows as a certain point in theconductive metal wire445moves away from thesurface431a, a predetermined operation is carried out. One example of the predetermined operation for forming the desired shape is an operation that lowers a contact between the resistpattern449and themetal foil450. A concrete method of lowering the contact is as follows. In the baking step at a predetermined temperature which is performed after the process for curing the remaining resistlayer448after being developed in the step of forming the resistpattern449, the baking is performed at a temperature less than 100 degrees, e.g., not less than 80 degrees and not more than 95 degrees, in order that the resistpattern449is completely dried. In addition, another example of the predetermined operation for forming the desired shape is as follows. When themetal foil450including thedark color film460is etched with the resistpattern449serving as a mask, wet etching is employed. In this case, a concentration of an etchant used in the wet etching is made to be greater than a predetermined concentration, or a temperature of the etchant is made to be higher than a predetermined temperature, or an etching period by the etchant is made shorter than a predetermined period. A yet another example of the predetermined operation for forming the desired shape is as follows. When an ultraviolet curing type resin is used in the resistlayer448, a UV intensity of the resin is lowered.

After themetal foil450including thedark color film460is etched as described above, the resistpattern449is removed as shown inFIG. 84.

Then, as shown inFIG. 85, the seconddark color layer447is formed on thesurface441aof theconductive metal layer445on the side opposed to the firstdark color layer446and the side surfaces441c,441d. The seconddark color layer447is formed by, e.g., subjecting a part of a material constituting theconductive metal layer445to a darkening treatment (blackening treatment). Namely, in this case, the seconddark color layer447made of metallic oxide or metallic sulfide can be formed from the part constituting theconductive metal layer445. Alternatively, the seconddark color layer447as a coating film made of a dark color material or a plated layer made of nickel or chrome may be disposed on the surface of theconductive metal layer445. In addition, the surface of theconductive metal layer445may be roughened, and the seconddark color layer447may be disposed thereon.

In this manner, theconductive pattern sheet420is manufactured. Thereafter, as shown inFIG. 86, the curvedfirst glass plate411, the firstjoint layer413, theconductive pattern sheet420, the secondjoint layer414and the curvedsecond glass plate412are superposed in this order, and heated and pressurized, so that the curvedfirst glass plate411, theconductive pattern sheet420and the curvedsecond glass plate412are joined by thejoint layers413,414. Therefore, theheating plate420is manufactured.

Theaforementioned heating plate410in this embodiment includes the pair ofglass plates411,412, and theconductive pattern440disposed between the pair ofglass plates411,412. Theconductive pattern440has the thinconductive wires441that are arranged in a pattern. In addition, theheating plate410includes the firstjoint layer413disposed between thefirst glass plate411of the pair of glass plates and theconductive pattern440to be directly in contact with thefirst glass plate411and the thinconductive wires441, so as to join theconductive pattern440to thefirst glass plate411. The thinconductive wire441is formed such that its line width narrows as a certain point in the thinconductive wire441comes close to thefirst glass plate411located on the side of the firstjoint layer413with which the thinconductive wire441is in contact.

According to such aheating plate410, when theglass plates411,412, thejoint layers413,414and theconductive pattern sheet420are laminated during the manufacturing process, thejoint layer413can easily get into the root side of the thinconductive wire441, particularly upon heating. As a result it can be restrained that bubbles remain around the sidewalls (surfaces441c,442d) of the thinconductive wire441. Thus, according to this embodiment, an appearance quality of theheating plate410can be improved, and glaring is restrained from occurring in theheating plate410.

The aforementioned embodiment can be variously modified. Modification examples are described with reference suitably to the drawings. In the below description and the drawings for the description, a component that can be similarly made as that of the above embodiment is shown by the same symbol as a component corresponding to the above embodiment, and overlapped description is omitted.

In a modification example shown inFIG. 87, theconductive pattern440is disposed on a surface of thefirst glass plate411facing thesecond glass plate412, through a holding layer not shown. Thesubstrate430as described in the above embodiment is not provided. The holding layer has a thickness of about 1 μm to 100 μm. The holding layer joins theconductive pattern440to thefirst glass plate411, by a peeling layer (illustration omitted) formed on a surface facing theglass plate411. On the other hand, a thirdjoint layer423is disposed between theconductive pattern440and thesecond glass plate412. The thirdjoint layer423is directly in contact with thesecond glass plate412and the thinconductive wires441, so as to join theconductive pattern440to thesecond glass plate412through the thinconductive wires441with which the thirdjoint layer423is in contact. The thinconductive wire441is formed such that a line width thereof narrows as a certain point in the thinconductive wire441comes close to thesecond glass plate412located on the side of the thirdjoint layer423. Also in this modification example, the same effect as that of the above embodiment can be obtained. In this example, when theconductive pattern440is formed by patterning, there exists a substrate that supports theconductive pattern440. However, this substrate is peeled when theconductive pattern440is joined to thefirst glass plate411. Thus, the above-described holding layer is exposed. The peeling layer formed on the holding layer may be, for example, a peeling layer of an interface peeling type, a peeling layer of an interlayer peeling type, a peeling layer of a cohesion peeling type and so on.

Next, in a modification example shown inFIG. 88, theconductive pattern440is disposed on therespective surfaces431a,431bof thesubstrate430in theconductive pattern sheet420. The firstjoint layer413is disposed between thefirst glass411and theconductive pattern440provided on thesurface431a. The firstjoint layer413is directly in contact with thefirst glass plate411and the thinconductive wires441of theconductive pattern440provided on thesurface431a, so as to join theconductive pattern440to thefirst glass plate411through the thinconductive wire441with which the firstjoint layer413is in contact. The thinconductive wire441is formed such that a line width thereof narrows as a certain point in the thinconductive wire441comes close to thefirst glass plate411located on the side of the firstjoint layer413in contact with the thinconductive wire441.

On the other hand, the secondjoint layer414is disposed between thesecond glass plate412and theconductive pattern440provided on thesurface431b. The secondjoint layer414is directly in contact with thesecond glass plate412and the thinconductive wire441of theconductive pattern440provided on thesurface431b, so as to join theconductive pattern440to thesecond glass plate412through the thinconductive wire441with which the secondjoint layer412is in contact. The thinconductive wire441is formed such that a line width thereof narrows as a certain point in the thinconductive wire441comes close to thesecond glass plate412located on the side of the secondjoint layer414in contact with the thinconductive wire441. Also in this modification example, the same effect as that of the above embodiment can be obtained.

The aforementioned embodiment and the modification examples can be more variously modified.

For example, in the example shown inFIG. 75, the seconddark color layer447is formed on thesurface441aof theconductive metal layer445on the side opposed to the firstdark color layer446and the side surfaces241c,241d. However, not limited thereto, the seconddark color layer247may be formed only on thesurface441aof theconductive metal layer445on the side opposed to the firstdark color layer446, or only on the side surfaces441c,441dof theconductive metal layer445.

When the seconddark color layer447is formed only on thesurface441aof theconductive metal layer245on the side opposed to the firstdark color layer446, after the step shown inFIG. 80, for example, the seconddark color layer447and the resistpattern449are disposed in this order on themetal foil450. Thereafter, the seconddark color layer447, theconductive metal layer445and the firstdark color layer446are etched with the resistpattern449serving as a mask.

Alternatively, when the seconddark color layer447is formed only on the side surfaces441c,441dof theconductive metal layer445, after the step shown inFIG. 83, for example, the seconddark color layer447is formed without removing the resistpattern449. After that, the resistpattern449is removed.

Theheating plate410may be used in a rear window, a side window and a sun roof of theautomobile1. In addition, theheating plate410may be used in a window of a vehicle other than an automobile, such as a railway, an aircraft, a vessel, a space vessel and so on.

Further, in addition to a vehicle, theheating plate410may be used in a part by which an inside and an outside is partitioned, such as a window of a building, a store and a house.

Although some modification examples of the above third embodiment are described, the modification examples can be naturally combined with one another for application.

The present invention is described in more detail herebelow by using an example. However, the present invention is not limited to the example.

Theheating plate410in Example was manufactured as follows. As thesubstrate430, there was firstly prepared a PET (polyethylene terephthalate) film (manufactured by TOYOBO Co., Ltd A4300) having a thickness of 100 μm, a width of 82 cm and a length of 100 m. A two-pack mixture type urethane ester-based adhesive was applied to thesubstrate430by a gravure coater, such that a thickness of the cured adhesive became 7 μm. Then, an electrolytic copper foil having a thickness of 10 μm, a width of 81 cm and a length of 80 m was laminated as themetal foil450on thesubstrate430through an adhesive. The electrolytic copper foil and thesubstrate430were maintained for 4 days in an environment of 50° C., so that the electrolytic copper foil was secured on thesubstrate430.

Thereafter, casein was applied to the electrolytic copper foil (metal foil450) and dried so as to laminate the resist layer48as a photosensitive resin layer. Then, in a plurality of ranges specified by 100 cm×80 cm in the resist layer48, a mesh-like pattern of 3.0 mm in pitch and 7 μm in line width was exposed with a photomask having a pattern formed thereon. In this exposure process, ultraviolet contact exposure was intermittently carried out. After the exposure process, a part where the resistpattern449was not formed was developed by water and removed. The remaining resist layer48was heated at 80° C. for 2 minutes and was baked at a temperature of 85 degrees. Thus, the resistpattern449was formed. The resistpattern449was formed in a mesh-like pattern of 3.0 mm in pitch and 7 μm in line width.

Then, a ferric chloride solution (Baume degree of 42, temperature of 30 degrees) was sprayed to themetal foil450from the resistpattern449, with the resistpattern449serving as a mask, so as to etch themetal foil450. After cleaning with water, the resist is peeled by using an alkali solution. After the resist was peeled, cleaning and drying were carried out. Then, there was obtained a laminate including a plurality of theconductive pattern sheets420including thesubstrate430made of PET/the adhesive layer/theconductive pattern440made of copper (conductive mesh). Theconductive pattern440in theconductive pattern sheet420was made as a range of 100 cm×80 cm wherein the thinconductive wires441were arranged in a mesh-like pattern of 3.0 mm in pitch and 7 μm in line width. The thinconductive wire441was formed into a trapezoidal shape in a section in a direction perpendicular to the extension direction of the thin conductive wire. In the trapezoidal section of the thinconductive wire441, an angle α that was defined by a line segment which extends from an end of a lower base (surface441a) to an end of an upper base (surface441b), with respect to a direction extending along the lower base, i.e., a basic angle was 75 degrees.

Then, theconductive pattern sheet420of 100 cm×80 cm was cut from the thus obtained laminate. Theconductive pattern sheet420was sandwiched between thejoint layers413,414formed of PVB adhesive sheets having the same size as that of theconductive pattern sheet420. Then, they are further sandwiched between theglass plates411,412of 100 cm×80 cm, and were heated/pressurized (vacuum laminated). Then, theheating plate410according to Example was obtained.

Upon inspection of theheating plate410according to Example with eyes, no bubble was found. In addition, when a point light source distant from 3 m was observed via theheating plate410, there was no fine glaring caused by bubbles.

A heating plate in Comparative Example was manufactured by using the same materials and the same steps as those of Example, excluding that a baking temperature for forming the resist pattern was 100 degrees. In the heating plate in Comparative Example, the thin conductive wire had a rectangular sectional shape in a direction perpendicular to the extension direction of the thin conductive wire. The basic angle was about 90 degrees. Upon inspection of the heating plate in Comparative Example with eyes, some bubbles were found. In addition, when a point light source distant from 3 m was observed via the heating plate, there was fine glaring caused by bubbles.