DESCRIPTION:
REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONThe present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61/598,070 filed Feb. 13, 2012 entitled BLAST MACHINE SYSTEM CONTROLLER which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONAspects of the present disclosure deal with control systems for abrasive blasting machines.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONPressure vessels or “blast pots” are used with various abrasive blasting materials for surface preparation applications. When closed and filled with the blasting material, the pressure vessel is pressurized and used in combination with an air feed line which receives abrasive material from the pressure vessel and then carries the material through a hose to a nozzle when used in a surface preparation application. Some larger blast pots feed multiple outputs, for example to supply material to different work stations. An embodiment of the present disclosure provides a control unit and data collection into which various functions relating to the blasting apparatus and surrounding environment are integrated.SUMMARYAccording to one aspect, the present disclosure provides a control system which integrates various functions of a multi-feed blasting apparatus. Tank pressure, charge/discharge control, status of the vessel cover, total hours of pressurization for the tank and individual feed ports, ambient conditions, and abrasive material level inside the tank are some of the functions and variables which may be monitored and controlled by the disclosed system.According to another aspect, an abrasive blasting control system is disclosed, comprising an abrasive blasting device having a pressure vessel for storing blasting media and a plurality of individual blast outlet lines connected to the pressure vessel, a control housing associated with the abrasive blasting device, a controller located within the housing and having a processor and a memory, and a plurality of line duration displays mounted to the housing. Each line duration display is operable to display the duration of time that a corresponding one of the blast outlet lines has been in active use. A vessel duration display is mounted to the control housing and is operable to display the duration of time that the pressure vessel has been pressurized. The controller may be configured to receive input from a plurality of line sensors connected to the corresponding plurality of individual blast outlet lines to track the duration of time that the individual abrasive blasting lines have been in active use. The controller may also provide output signals to the individual line duration displays to display the duration information for the individual blasting lines. Reset inputs may also be provided for each of the line duration displays and vessel duration display. The control system may also comprise a hatch status display for indicating the status of the vessel hatch or a locking device connected to the hatch. A media level display may also be included which indicates the amount of blasting media remaining in the pressure vessel.According to another aspect, an abrasive blasting system is disclosed, comprising a pressure vessel having a plurality of blast outlet lines, a plurality of line sensors operatively connected to the individual blast outlet lines, and a control panel having a plurality of line duration displays. The line duration displays are operable to display the duration of time that a corresponding one if the blast outlet lines has been in active use based on input received from the line sensors. A vessel duration display is mounted to the housing. The vessel duration display is operable to display the duration of time that the pressure vessel has been pressurized.According to yet another aspect, a method for monitoring an abrasive blasting apparatus is disclosed, comprising receiving input from a plurality of line sensors connected to a corresponding plurality of individual blast outlet lines connected to the abrasive blasting apparatus, and automatically indicating the individual durations of use for each of the individual blast outlet lines based on the input.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSFIG. 1is a perspective view of a blast machine system according to one embodiment of the present disclosure.FIG. 2is a schematic control diagram of a blast machine system control arrangement according to the embodiment ofFIG. 1.FIG. 3is a perspective view of a control station according to one embodiment of the present disclosure.DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTSFor the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles of the invention, reference will now be made to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended, such alterations and further modifications in the illustrated device, and such further applications of the principles of the invention as illustrated therein being contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the invention relates.The present disclosure provides a system for controlling and monitoring various functions of a blasting machine having multiple blast outlets. By integrating the functions in a single unit, the operator can gain better knowledge of the blast operations and any effects the surrounding environment might present. As a result, increased safety and operational efficiency may be achieved.FIG. 1illustrates ablasting system10having apressure vessel20for storing an abrasive blasting media,feed air inlet25, and a plurality ofblast outlets30. As illustrated, fouroutlets30are provided (allowing four users to utilize thesystem10simultaneously), however more orless outlets30may be provided depending on the needs of the application. Anoptional moisture separator40may be provided for removing moisture from the incoming air before it reaches thepressure vessel20and/orblast outlets30. Thepressure vessel20includes ahatch22which can be opened to add the blasting media to the vessel and/or for interior inspection and maintenance. Thehatch22typically includes a locking device, such as the cam-lock closures23shown inFIG. 1.In the illustrated embodiment, pressurized air, from either an external source or a compressor integrated with thesystem10, enters themoisture separator40viainlet25and is then directed through multiple outlets toair lines42viaair control valves45. A maininlet shutoff valve26may also be provided to isolate thesystem10from the pressurized air source. The blasting media is fed from the bottom of thepressure tank20throughfeed lines55and entersmetering valves50. Eachmetering valve50receives the blasting media from amedia feed line55and pressurized air from anair line42. As the blasting media enters ametering valve50, it is propelled by the pressurized air toward the correspondingmetering valve outlet30. Blast hoses (not shown) may be connected to one or more of themetering valve outlets30and typically include a nozzle for directing the blast media toward the object being blasted. When a outlet orfeed line55is not in use, it may be secured with a cap or plug to prevent air and/or blast media from escaping. It shall be understood that thevalve26may be operated manually or operated remotely by electrical, pneumatic, or mechanical actuators. Valves45and50may be operated remotely by electrical or pneumatic actuators. In one embodiment, thevalves26,45and50may comprise electromechanically actuated ball valves, although other types of valves may also be used.The operation of the various valves and other components of thesystem10is monitored and controlled usingcontrol station60, which may be mounted to thepressure tank20as shown or mounted in a remote location. As shown in schematic form inFIG. 2and illustrated inFIG. 3, thecontrol station60monitors several conditions and/or variables related to thesystem20including, but not limited to, internal pressure of thepressure tank20, total time thepressure tank20is pressurized, cycle time of eachblast outlet30when pressurized, state (open, closed, etc.) of thehatch22, and ambient weather conditions.Thecontrol station60comprises acontroller65for receiving input from monitoring devices and outputting data for display. Thecontroller65may also provide outputs for controlling various devices related to the control and operation of thesystem10, including regulation and maintenance of the pressure level within thepressure vessel20, regulation of the mixture of air and blasting media through the system, and regulation of other material flow rates through thesystem10. Thecontroller65preferably includes acomputer processor70and amemory75for processing and storing information during operation of thesystem10. In a preferred embodiment, thecontrol station60is configured to operate using12volt direct current as the supply power, although other suitable power levels and types may be used, depending on the needs of the particular application.In one embodiment, avessel pressure sensor80is operatively attached to thepressure vessel10in a location which allows thesensor80to accurately measure the pressure level inside thepressure vessel10. Thepressure sensor80transmits a signal indicative of the pressure level to thecontroller65as shown. Thecontroller60receives the signal from thesensor80and outputs a corresponding signal to thevessel pressure display85, which displays the pressure in pounds per square inch or other appropriate units. Thevessel pressure display85may comprise any suitable electronic display known in the art, such as a liquid crystal display (LCD), light emitting diode (LED) display, or the like. The displays may also take the form of other types of displays, such as dials, gauges, needle indicators, and color-coded lamps. In addition, it shall be understood that still other types of displays may be used to indicate the vessel pressure or other system parameters, including analog, mechanical, and pneumatic displays. It shall also be understood that the signal from thepressure sensor80may be connected directly to thedisplay85, as opposed to being routed through thecontroller65.Thecontrol station60may also be configured to monitor and/or display the total hours that thepressure vessel20is pressurized. In one embodiment, a separatepneumatic switch82is attached to thepressure vessel10and is triggered whenever the pressure inside thevessel20rises above a predetermined level (e.g., 1 psi). Theswitch82is also connected to thecontroller65. When the switch is triggered, thecontroller65begins to log and display the total hours that thevessel20has been pressurized ondisplay90. In other embodiments, thecontroller65may further track and display the total hours that the pressure vessel is pressurized and at least one blast outlet line is in active use. In other embodiments, thedisplay90may be incremented when any one of the individual blast outlets is in use or when a corresponding individual display for that outlet or line is being incremented. The total hours displayed may be expressed in increments of one tenth of an hour or any other appropriate units. A reset button, such as keyed reset95, may be provided to reset the total displayed hours to zero as desired.In addition to total vessel hours, cycle times for the individual blast outlets30(i.e., when blast media is being propelled through the blast line during active use) may be monitored and displayed using thecontrol station60. In one embodiment, individual pneumatic switches100(e.g., 1 thru N, if N lines42are provided) are installed in a location which causes the switches to be activated when the pressure inside a correspondingindividual air line42or a hose connected to anindividual blast outlet30, rises above a predetermined pressure. When one of theswitches100is activated, thecontroller65begins to log and display the total usage hours for that line on thecorresponding display105. In other embodiments, the controller increases the total usage hours based on a switch which is actuated when the operator activates a trigger located near the nozzle of a hose connected to ablast outlet30.Reset buttons110may be provided to reset the individually displayed cycle times as desired.Ahatch sensor112may be provided to monitor the state of thehatch22. In one embodiment, thehatch sensor112monitors the state of a locking device (e.g., cam-lock closures23and/or other additional hatch locking devices, such as a detent collar securing the cam-lock closures in a closed position) connected to thehatch22to determine whether the locking device is actively locked or inactive and potentially unlocked. In other embodiments, thehatch sensor112may simply monitor whether the hatch is open or secured, or whether it is safe for the operator to open thehatch22. The hatch information is transmitted to thecontroller65, which displays the hatchstatus using display115.In certain preferred embodiments, thecontrol station60may include aweather condition display120which displays data relating to ambient weather conditions around thesystem10. The displayed data may include ambient temperature, relative humidity, dew point, barometric pressure, wind conditions, and the like. In one embodiment, the weather information is obtained usingvarious weather sensors125which are in operative communication with thecontroller65, either through wired or wireless mediums. The weather sensors may be mounted within or external to thecontrol station60. Thecontroller65receives the signals from thesensors125and translates the information for display onweather display120. Thecontroller65may also receive weather information from independent weather reporting services, such as the National Weather Service. The displayed information allows the operator to assess how local weather conditions may affect operation of thesystem10and/or whether the conditions may affect the surface of the item being treated.A remotepressurization control switch87may also be provided which allows the operator to control an associated valve actuator (e.g., inlet valve26) or other control device to remotely pressurize or depressurize thevessel20. In one embodiment, theswitch87is implemented as a two position double pole/double throw (DPDT) toggle switch. In addition to total tank pressurization or depressurization, additional switches may be included within thecontrol station60to allow selective pressurization or depressurization of theindividual blast outlets30. Additional switches may provided to control the state of the various valves and control devices of the system, includingair control valves45, feedvalves50, or other pressure control valves (indicated collectively as88inFIG. 2) during operation of thesystem10. In certain embodiments, thecontrol station60may also receive input fromvalve position sensors92connected to thevalves88at appropriate locations.In certain embodiments, thesystem10may also include adisplay86for indicating the amount of blasting media remaining in thevessel20. Thedisplay86is fed (either directly or via controller65) by amedia sensor89operatively connected to thevessel10. Themedia sensor89may comprise any material level or quantity sensor known in the art, including, but not limited to, ultrasonic sensors, laser/light sensors, mechanically-actuated sensors, and the like.It shall be understood that while asingle controller65is described above as managing and/or translating the various input signals for output on the individual displays, other processor or signal routing configurations are contemplated to be within the scope of the present disclosure. For example, certain signals, such as those received from pressure switches82and100, may bypass thecontroller65and be connected directly to thedisplays90and105respectively, when the displays are implemented with built-in circuitry to monitor the state of the switches and cause the hour display to be incremented.In certain embodiments, thecontrol station60may incorporate a data logging system which monitors and records information relating to operation of thesystem10in memory for future reference. Examples of such recorded data include, but are not limited to, total vessel hours, individual outlet hours, usage trends, hatch status, weather data and weather tracking, maintenance interval data, and the like. In still further embodiments, thecontrol station60may include a communication module for transferring data from the logging system to a computer, memory device, or handheld mobile device located near thecontrol station60, through either a wired (e.g., USB, Ethernet, Firewire, or the like) or short range wireless medium (e.g., Bluetooth, RFID, and the like). Thecontrol station60may also comprise a remote reporting device, such as a cellular network or Wi-Fi transmitter/receiver, for electronically reporting the operational data to a remote location. Thecontrol station60may also include a global positioning satellite (GPS) receiver/transmitter for recording or reporting the location of thesystem10or for selecting a location for a desired local weather report, such as when thesystem10is implemented on a movable platform or trailer.FIG. 3illustrates a perspective view of one embodiment of thecontrol station60. As shown, thecontrol station60includes ahousing160, amain control panel165, and aweathertight enclosing door170for protecting thepanel165from the elements. Thedoor170may be optionally secured to thehousing160byhinge175andreleasable locks180. The various indicators and remote operator controls described above are preferably arranged within thepanel165as shown, although other suitable arrangements may be used.While the invention has been illustrated and described in detail in the drawings and foregoing description, the same is to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive in character, it being understood that only the preferred embodiment has been shown and described and that all changes and modifications that come within the spirit of the invention are desired to be protected.

REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONThe present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61/598,070 filed Feb. 13, 2012 entitled BLAST MACHINE SYSTEM CONTROLLER which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.FIELD OF THE INVENTIONAspects of the present disclosure deal with control systems for abrasive blasting machines.BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONPressure vessels or “blast pots” are used with various abrasive blasting materials for surface preparation applications. When closed and filled with the blasting material, the pressure vessel is pressurized and used in combination with an air feed line which receives abrasive material from the pressure vessel and then carries the material through a hose to a nozzle when used in a surface preparation application. Some larger blast pots feed multiple outputs, for example to supply material to different work stations. An embodiment of the present disclosure provides a control unit and data collection into which various functions relating to the blasting apparatus and surrounding environment are integrated.SUMMARYAccording to one aspect, the present disclosure provides a control system which integrates various functions of a multi-feed blasting apparatus. Tank pressure, charge/discharge control, status of the vessel cover, total hours of pressurization for the tank and individual feed ports, ambient conditions, and abrasive material level inside the tank are some of the functions and variables which may be monitored and controlled by the disclosed system.According to another aspect, an abrasive blasting control system is disclosed, comprising an abrasive blasting device having a pressure vessel for storing blasting media and a plurality of individual blast outlet lines connected to the pressure vessel, a control housing associated with the abrasive blasting device, a controller located within the housing and having a processor and a memory, and a plurality of line duration displays mounted to the housing. Each line duration display is operable to display the duration of time that a corresponding one of the blast outlet lines has been in active use. A vessel duration display is mounted to the control housing and is operable to display the duration of time that the pressure vessel has been pressurized. The controller may be configured to receive input from a plurality of line sensors connected to the corresponding plurality of individual blast outlet lines to track the duration of time that the individual abrasive blasting lines have been in active use. The controller may also provide output signals to the individual line duration displays to display the duration information for the individual blasting lines. Reset inputs may also be provided for each of the line duration displays and vessel duration display. The control system may also comprise a hatch status display for indicating the status of the vessel hatch or a locking device connected to the hatch. A media level display may also be included which indicates the amount of blasting media remaining in the pressure vessel.According to another aspect, an abrasive blasting system is disclosed, comprising a pressure vessel having a plurality of blast outlet lines, a plurality of line sensors operatively connected to the individual blast outlet lines, and a control panel having a plurality of line duration displays. The line duration displays are operable to display the duration of time that a corresponding one if the blast outlet lines has been in active use based on input received from the line sensors. A vessel duration display is mounted to the housing. The vessel duration display is operable to display the duration of time that the pressure vessel has been pressurized.According to yet another aspect, a method for monitoring an abrasive blasting apparatus is disclosed, comprising receiving input from a plurality of line sensors connected to a corresponding plurality of individual blast outlet lines connected to the abrasive blasting apparatus, and automatically indicating the individual durations of use for each of the individual blast outlet lines based on the input.BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGSFIG. 1is a perspective view of a blast machine system according to one embodiment of the present disclosure.FIG. 2is a schematic control diagram of a blast machine system control arrangement according to the embodiment ofFIG. 1.FIG. 3is a perspective view of a control station according to one embodiment of the present disclosure.DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTSFor the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles of the invention, reference will now be made to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended, such alterations and further modifications in the illustrated device, and such further applications of the principles of the invention as illustrated therein being contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the invention relates.The present disclosure provides a system for controlling and monitoring various functions of a blasting machine having multiple blast outlets. By integrating the functions in a single unit, the operator can gain better knowledge of the blast operations and any effects the surrounding environment might present. As a result, increased safety and operational efficiency may be achieved.FIG. 1illustrates ablasting system10having apressure vessel20for storing an abrasive blasting media,feed air inlet25, and a plurality ofblast outlets30. As illustrated, fouroutlets30are provided (allowing four users to utilize thesystem10simultaneously), however more orless outlets30may be provided depending on the needs of the application. Anoptional moisture separator40may be provided for removing moisture from the incoming air before it reaches thepressure vessel20and/orblast outlets30. Thepressure vessel20includes ahatch22which can be opened to add the blasting media to the vessel and/or for interior inspection and maintenance. Thehatch22typically includes a locking device, such as the cam-lock closures23shown inFIG. 1.In the illustrated embodiment, pressurized air, from either an external source or a compressor integrated with thesystem10, enters themoisture separator40viainlet25and is then directed through multiple outlets toair lines42viaair control valves45. A maininlet shutoff valve26may also be provided to isolate thesystem10from the pressurized air source. The blasting media is fed from the bottom of thepressure tank20throughfeed lines55and entersmetering valves50. Eachmetering valve50receives the blasting media from amedia feed line55and pressurized air from anair line42. As the blasting media enters ametering valve50, it is propelled by the pressurized air toward the correspondingmetering valve outlet30. Blast hoses (not shown) may be connected to one or more of themetering valve outlets30and typically include a nozzle for directing the blast media toward the object being blasted. When a outlet orfeed line55is not in use, it may be secured with a cap or plug to prevent air and/or blast media from escaping. It shall be understood that thevalve26may be operated manually or operated remotely by electrical, pneumatic, or mechanical actuators. Valves45and50may be operated remotely by electrical or pneumatic actuators. In one embodiment, thevalves26,45and50may comprise electromechanically actuated ball valves, although other types of valves may also be used.The operation of the various valves and other components of thesystem10is monitored and controlled usingcontrol station60, which may be mounted to thepressure tank20as shown or mounted in a remote location. As shown in schematic form inFIG. 2and illustrated inFIG. 3, thecontrol station60monitors several conditions and/or variables related to thesystem20including, but not limited to, internal pressure of thepressure tank20, total time thepressure tank20is pressurized, cycle time of eachblast outlet30when pressurized, state (open, closed, etc.) of thehatch22, and ambient weather conditions.Thecontrol station60comprises acontroller65for receiving input from monitoring devices and outputting data for display. Thecontroller65may also provide outputs for controlling various devices related to the control and operation of thesystem10, including regulation and maintenance of the pressure level within thepressure vessel20, regulation of the mixture of air and blasting media through the system, and regulation of other material flow rates through thesystem10. Thecontroller65preferably includes acomputer processor70and amemory75for processing and storing information during operation of thesystem10. In a preferred embodiment, thecontrol station60is configured to operate using12volt direct current as the supply power, although other suitable power levels and types may be used, depending on the needs of the particular application.In one embodiment, avessel pressure sensor80is operatively attached to thepressure vessel10in a location which allows thesensor80to accurately measure the pressure level inside thepressure vessel10. Thepressure sensor80transmits a signal indicative of the pressure level to thecontroller65as shown. Thecontroller60receives the signal from thesensor80and outputs a corresponding signal to thevessel pressure display85, which displays the pressure in pounds per square inch or other appropriate units. Thevessel pressure display85may comprise any suitable electronic display known in the art, such as a liquid crystal display (LCD), light emitting diode (LED) display, or the like. The displays may also take the form of other types of displays, such as dials, gauges, needle indicators, and color-coded lamps. In addition, it shall be understood that still other types of displays may be used to indicate the vessel pressure or other system parameters, including analog, mechanical, and pneumatic displays. It shall also be understood that the signal from thepressure sensor80may be connected directly to thedisplay85, as opposed to being routed through thecontroller65.Thecontrol station60may also be configured to monitor and/or display the total hours that thepressure vessel20is pressurized. In one embodiment, a separatepneumatic switch82is attached to thepressure vessel10and is triggered whenever the pressure inside thevessel20rises above a predetermined level (e.g., 1 psi). Theswitch82is also connected to thecontroller65. When the switch is triggered, thecontroller65begins to log and display the total hours that thevessel20has been pressurized ondisplay90. In other embodiments, thecontroller65may further track and display the total hours that the pressure vessel is pressurized and at least one blast outlet line is in active use. In other embodiments, thedisplay90may be incremented when any one of the individual blast outlets is in use or when a corresponding individual display for that outlet or line is being incremented. The total hours displayed may be expressed in increments of one tenth of an hour or any other appropriate units. A reset button, such as keyed reset95, may be provided to reset the total displayed hours to zero as desired.In addition to total vessel hours, cycle times for the individual blast outlets30(i.e., when blast media is being propelled through the blast line during active use) may be monitored and displayed using thecontrol station60. In one embodiment, individual pneumatic switches100(e.g., 1 thru N, if N lines42are provided) are installed in a location which causes the switches to be activated when the pressure inside a correspondingindividual air line42or a hose connected to anindividual blast outlet30, rises above a predetermined pressure. When one of theswitches100is activated, thecontroller65begins to log and display the total usage hours for that line on thecorresponding display105. In other embodiments, the controller increases the total usage hours based on a switch which is actuated when the operator activates a trigger located near the nozzle of a hose connected to ablast outlet30.Reset buttons110may be provided to reset the individually displayed cycle times as desired.Ahatch sensor112may be provided to monitor the state of thehatch22. In one embodiment, thehatch sensor112monitors the state of a locking device (e.g., cam-lock closures23and/or other additional hatch locking devices, such as a detent collar securing the cam-lock closures in a closed position) connected to thehatch22to determine whether the locking device is actively locked or inactive and potentially unlocked. In other embodiments, thehatch sensor112may simply monitor whether the hatch is open or secured, or whether it is safe for the operator to open thehatch22. The hatch information is transmitted to thecontroller65, which displays the hatchstatus using display115.In certain preferred embodiments, thecontrol station60may include aweather condition display120which displays data relating to ambient weather conditions around thesystem10. The displayed data may include ambient temperature, relative humidity, dew point, barometric pressure, wind conditions, and the like. In one embodiment, the weather information is obtained usingvarious weather sensors125which are in operative communication with thecontroller65, either through wired or wireless mediums. The weather sensors may be mounted within or external to thecontrol station60. Thecontroller65receives the signals from thesensors125and translates the information for display onweather display120. Thecontroller65may also receive weather information from independent weather reporting services, such as the National Weather Service. The displayed information allows the operator to assess how local weather conditions may affect operation of thesystem10and/or whether the conditions may affect the surface of the item being treated.A remotepressurization control switch87may also be provided which allows the operator to control an associated valve actuator (e.g., inlet valve26) or other control device to remotely pressurize or depressurize thevessel20. In one embodiment, theswitch87is implemented as a two position double pole/double throw (DPDT) toggle switch. In addition to total tank pressurization or depressurization, additional switches may be included within thecontrol station60to allow selective pressurization or depressurization of theindividual blast outlets30. Additional switches may provided to control the state of the various valves and control devices of the system, includingair control valves45, feedvalves50, or other pressure control valves (indicated collectively as88inFIG. 2) during operation of thesystem10. In certain embodiments, thecontrol station60may also receive input fromvalve position sensors92connected to thevalves88at appropriate locations.In certain embodiments, thesystem10may also include adisplay86for indicating the amount of blasting media remaining in thevessel20. Thedisplay86is fed (either directly or via controller65) by amedia sensor89operatively connected to thevessel10. Themedia sensor89may comprise any material level or quantity sensor known in the art, including, but not limited to, ultrasonic sensors, laser/light sensors, mechanically-actuated sensors, and the like.It shall be understood that while asingle controller65is described above as managing and/or translating the various input signals for output on the individual displays, other processor or signal routing configurations are contemplated to be within the scope of the present disclosure. For example, certain signals, such as those received from pressure switches82and100, may bypass thecontroller65and be connected directly to thedisplays90and105respectively, when the displays are implemented with built-in circuitry to monitor the state of the switches and cause the hour display to be incremented.In certain embodiments, thecontrol station60may incorporate a data logging system which monitors and records information relating to operation of thesystem10in memory for future reference. Examples of such recorded data include, but are not limited to, total vessel hours, individual outlet hours, usage trends, hatch status, weather data and weather tracking, maintenance interval data, and the like. In still further embodiments, thecontrol station60may include a communication module for transferring data from the logging system to a computer, memory device, or handheld mobile device located near thecontrol station60, through either a wired (e.g., USB, Ethernet, Firewire, or the like) or short range wireless medium (e.g., Bluetooth, RFID, and the like). Thecontrol station60may also comprise a remote reporting device, such as a cellular network or Wi-Fi transmitter/receiver, for electronically reporting the operational data to a remote location. Thecontrol station60may also include a global positioning satellite (GPS) receiver/transmitter for recording or reporting the location of thesystem10or for selecting a location for a desired local weather report, such as when thesystem10is implemented on a movable platform or trailer.FIG. 3illustrates a perspective view of one embodiment of thecontrol station60. As shown, thecontrol station60includes ahousing160, amain control panel165, and aweathertight enclosing door170for protecting thepanel165from the elements. Thedoor170may be optionally secured to thehousing160byhinge175andreleasable locks180. The various indicators and remote operator controls described above are preferably arranged within thepanel165as shown, although other suitable arrangements may be used.While the invention has been illustrated and described in detail in the drawings and foregoing description, the same is to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive in character, it being understood that only the preferred embodiment has been shown and described and that all changes and modifications that come within the spirit of the invention are desired to be protected.

The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61/598,070 filed Feb. 13, 2012 entitled BLAST MACHINE SYSTEM CONTROLLER which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Aspects of the present disclosure deal with control systems for abrasive blasting machines.

Pressure vessels or “blast pots” are used with various abrasive blasting materials for surface preparation applications. When closed and filled with the blasting material, the pressure vessel is pressurized and used in combination with an air feed line which receives abrasive material from the pressure vessel and then carries the material through a hose to a nozzle when used in a surface preparation application. Some larger blast pots feed multiple outputs, for example to supply material to different work stations. An embodiment of the present disclosure provides a control unit and data collection into which various functions relating to the blasting apparatus and surrounding environment are integrated.

According to one aspect, the present disclosure provides a control system which integrates various functions of a multi-feed blasting apparatus. Tank pressure, charge/discharge control, status of the vessel cover, total hours of pressurization for the tank and individual feed ports, ambient conditions, and abrasive material level inside the tank are some of the functions and variables which may be monitored and controlled by the disclosed system.

According to another aspect, an abrasive blasting control system is disclosed, comprising an abrasive blasting device having a pressure vessel for storing blasting media and a plurality of individual blast outlet lines connected to the pressure vessel, a control housing associated with the abrasive blasting device, a controller located within the housing and having a processor and a memory, and a plurality of line duration displays mounted to the housing. Each line duration display is operable to display the duration of time that a corresponding one of the blast outlet lines has been in active use. A vessel duration display is mounted to the control housing and is operable to display the duration of time that the pressure vessel has been pressurized. The controller may be configured to receive input from a plurality of line sensors connected to the corresponding plurality of individual blast outlet lines to track the duration of time that the individual abrasive blasting lines have been in active use. The controller may also provide output signals to the individual line duration displays to display the duration information for the individual blasting lines. Reset inputs may also be provided for each of the line duration displays and vessel duration display. The control system may also comprise a hatch status display for indicating the status of the vessel hatch or a locking device connected to the hatch. A media level display may also be included which indicates the amount of blasting media remaining in the pressure vessel.

According to another aspect, an abrasive blasting system is disclosed, comprising a pressure vessel having a plurality of blast outlet lines, a plurality of line sensors operatively connected to the individual blast outlet lines, and a control panel having a plurality of line duration displays. The line duration displays are operable to display the duration of time that a corresponding one if the blast outlet lines has been in active use based on input received from the line sensors. A vessel duration display is mounted to the housing. The vessel duration display is operable to display the duration of time that the pressure vessel has been pressurized.

According to yet another aspect, a method for monitoring an abrasive blasting apparatus is disclosed, comprising receiving input from a plurality of line sensors connected to a corresponding plurality of individual blast outlet lines connected to the abrasive blasting apparatus, and automatically indicating the individual durations of use for each of the individual blast outlet lines based on the input.

FIG. 1is a perspective view of a blast machine system according to one embodiment of the present disclosure.

FIG. 2is a schematic control diagram of a blast machine system control arrangement according to the embodiment ofFIG. 1.

FIG. 3is a perspective view of a control station according to one embodiment of the present disclosure.

For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles of the invention, reference will now be made to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended, such alterations and further modifications in the illustrated device, and such further applications of the principles of the invention as illustrated therein being contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the invention relates.

The present disclosure provides a system for controlling and monitoring various functions of a blasting machine having multiple blast outlets. By integrating the functions in a single unit, the operator can gain better knowledge of the blast operations and any effects the surrounding environment might present. As a result, increased safety and operational efficiency may be achieved.

FIG. 1illustrates ablasting system10having apressure vessel20for storing an abrasive blasting media,feed air inlet25, and a plurality ofblast outlets30. As illustrated, fouroutlets30are provided (allowing four users to utilize thesystem10simultaneously), however more orless outlets30may be provided depending on the needs of the application. Anoptional moisture separator40may be provided for removing moisture from the incoming air before it reaches thepressure vessel20and/orblast outlets30. Thepressure vessel20includes ahatch22which can be opened to add the blasting media to the vessel and/or for interior inspection and maintenance. Thehatch22typically includes a locking device, such as the cam-lock closures23shown inFIG. 1.

In the illustrated embodiment, pressurized air, from either an external source or a compressor integrated with thesystem10, enters themoisture separator40viainlet25and is then directed through multiple outlets toair lines42viaair control valves45. A maininlet shutoff valve26may also be provided to isolate thesystem10from the pressurized air source. The blasting media is fed from the bottom of thepressure tank20throughfeed lines55and entersmetering valves50. Eachmetering valve50receives the blasting media from amedia feed line55and pressurized air from anair line42. As the blasting media enters ametering valve50, it is propelled by the pressurized air toward the correspondingmetering valve outlet30. Blast hoses (not shown) may be connected to one or more of themetering valve outlets30and typically include a nozzle for directing the blast media toward the object being blasted. When a outlet orfeed line55is not in use, it may be secured with a cap or plug to prevent air and/or blast media from escaping. It shall be understood that thevalve26may be operated manually or operated remotely by electrical, pneumatic, or mechanical actuators. Valves45and50may be operated remotely by electrical or pneumatic actuators. In one embodiment, thevalves26,45and50may comprise electromechanically actuated ball valves, although other types of valves may also be used.

The operation of the various valves and other components of thesystem10is monitored and controlled usingcontrol station60, which may be mounted to thepressure tank20as shown or mounted in a remote location. As shown in schematic form inFIG. 2and illustrated inFIG. 3, thecontrol station60monitors several conditions and/or variables related to thesystem20including, but not limited to, internal pressure of thepressure tank20, total time thepressure tank20is pressurized, cycle time of eachblast outlet30when pressurized, state (open, closed, etc.) of thehatch22, and ambient weather conditions.

Thecontrol station60comprises acontroller65for receiving input from monitoring devices and outputting data for display. Thecontroller65may also provide outputs for controlling various devices related to the control and operation of thesystem10, including regulation and maintenance of the pressure level within thepressure vessel20, regulation of the mixture of air and blasting media through the system, and regulation of other material flow rates through thesystem10. Thecontroller65preferably includes acomputer processor70and amemory75for processing and storing information during operation of thesystem10. In a preferred embodiment, thecontrol station60is configured to operate using12volt direct current as the supply power, although other suitable power levels and types may be used, depending on the needs of the particular application.

In one embodiment, avessel pressure sensor80is operatively attached to thepressure vessel10in a location which allows thesensor80to accurately measure the pressure level inside thepressure vessel10. Thepressure sensor80transmits a signal indicative of the pressure level to thecontroller65as shown. Thecontroller60receives the signal from thesensor80and outputs a corresponding signal to thevessel pressure display85, which displays the pressure in pounds per square inch or other appropriate units. Thevessel pressure display85may comprise any suitable electronic display known in the art, such as a liquid crystal display (LCD), light emitting diode (LED) display, or the like. The displays may also take the form of other types of displays, such as dials, gauges, needle indicators, and color-coded lamps. In addition, it shall be understood that still other types of displays may be used to indicate the vessel pressure or other system parameters, including analog, mechanical, and pneumatic displays. It shall also be understood that the signal from thepressure sensor80may be connected directly to thedisplay85, as opposed to being routed through thecontroller65.

Thecontrol station60may also be configured to monitor and/or display the total hours that thepressure vessel20is pressurized. In one embodiment, a separatepneumatic switch82is attached to thepressure vessel10and is triggered whenever the pressure inside thevessel20rises above a predetermined level (e.g., 1 psi). Theswitch82is also connected to thecontroller65. When the switch is triggered, thecontroller65begins to log and display the total hours that thevessel20has been pressurized ondisplay90. In other embodiments, thecontroller65may further track and display the total hours that the pressure vessel is pressurized and at least one blast outlet line is in active use. In other embodiments, thedisplay90may be incremented when any one of the individual blast outlets is in use or when a corresponding individual display for that outlet or line is being incremented. The total hours displayed may be expressed in increments of one tenth of an hour or any other appropriate units. A reset button, such as keyed reset95, may be provided to reset the total displayed hours to zero as desired.

In addition to total vessel hours, cycle times for the individual blast outlets30(i.e., when blast media is being propelled through the blast line during active use) may be monitored and displayed using thecontrol station60. In one embodiment, individual pneumatic switches100(e.g., 1 thru N, if N lines42are provided) are installed in a location which causes the switches to be activated when the pressure inside a correspondingindividual air line42or a hose connected to anindividual blast outlet30, rises above a predetermined pressure. When one of theswitches100is activated, thecontroller65begins to log and display the total usage hours for that line on thecorresponding display105. In other embodiments, the controller increases the total usage hours based on a switch which is actuated when the operator activates a trigger located near the nozzle of a hose connected to ablast outlet30.Reset buttons110may be provided to reset the individually displayed cycle times as desired.

Ahatch sensor112may be provided to monitor the state of thehatch22. In one embodiment, thehatch sensor112monitors the state of a locking device (e.g., cam-lock closures23and/or other additional hatch locking devices, such as a detent collar securing the cam-lock closures in a closed position) connected to thehatch22to determine whether the locking device is actively locked or inactive and potentially unlocked. In other embodiments, thehatch sensor112may simply monitor whether the hatch is open or secured, or whether it is safe for the operator to open thehatch22. The hatch information is transmitted to thecontroller65, which displays the hatchstatus using display115.

In certain preferred embodiments, thecontrol station60may include aweather condition display120which displays data relating to ambient weather conditions around thesystem10. The displayed data may include ambient temperature, relative humidity, dew point, barometric pressure, wind conditions, and the like. In one embodiment, the weather information is obtained usingvarious weather sensors125which are in operative communication with thecontroller65, either through wired or wireless mediums. The weather sensors may be mounted within or external to thecontrol station60. Thecontroller65receives the signals from thesensors125and translates the information for display onweather display120. Thecontroller65may also receive weather information from independent weather reporting services, such as the National Weather Service. The displayed information allows the operator to assess how local weather conditions may affect operation of thesystem10and/or whether the conditions may affect the surface of the item being treated.

A remotepressurization control switch87may also be provided which allows the operator to control an associated valve actuator (e.g., inlet valve26) or other control device to remotely pressurize or depressurize thevessel20. In one embodiment, theswitch87is implemented as a two position double pole/double throw (DPDT) toggle switch. In addition to total tank pressurization or depressurization, additional switches may be included within thecontrol station60to allow selective pressurization or depressurization of theindividual blast outlets30. Additional switches may provided to control the state of the various valves and control devices of the system, includingair control valves45, feedvalves50, or other pressure control valves (indicated collectively as88inFIG. 2) during operation of thesystem10. In certain embodiments, thecontrol station60may also receive input fromvalve position sensors92connected to thevalves88at appropriate locations.

In certain embodiments, thesystem10may also include adisplay86for indicating the amount of blasting media remaining in thevessel20. Thedisplay86is fed (either directly or via controller65) by amedia sensor89operatively connected to thevessel10. Themedia sensor89may comprise any material level or quantity sensor known in the art, including, but not limited to, ultrasonic sensors, laser/light sensors, mechanically-actuated sensors, and the like.

It shall be understood that while asingle controller65is described above as managing and/or translating the various input signals for output on the individual displays, other processor or signal routing configurations are contemplated to be within the scope of the present disclosure. For example, certain signals, such as those received from pressure switches82and100, may bypass thecontroller65and be connected directly to thedisplays90and105respectively, when the displays are implemented with built-in circuitry to monitor the state of the switches and cause the hour display to be incremented.

In certain embodiments, thecontrol station60may incorporate a data logging system which monitors and records information relating to operation of thesystem10in memory for future reference. Examples of such recorded data include, but are not limited to, total vessel hours, individual outlet hours, usage trends, hatch status, weather data and weather tracking, maintenance interval data, and the like. In still further embodiments, thecontrol station60may include a communication module for transferring data from the logging system to a computer, memory device, or handheld mobile device located near thecontrol station60, through either a wired (e.g., USB, Ethernet, Firewire, or the like) or short range wireless medium (e.g., Bluetooth, RFID, and the like). Thecontrol station60may also comprise a remote reporting device, such as a cellular network or Wi-Fi transmitter/receiver, for electronically reporting the operational data to a remote location. Thecontrol station60may also include a global positioning satellite (GPS) receiver/transmitter for recording or reporting the location of thesystem10or for selecting a location for a desired local weather report, such as when thesystem10is implemented on a movable platform or trailer.

FIG. 3illustrates a perspective view of one embodiment of thecontrol station60. As shown, thecontrol station60includes ahousing160, amain control panel165, and aweathertight enclosing door170for protecting thepanel165from the elements. Thedoor170may be optionally secured to thehousing160byhinge175andreleasable locks180. The various indicators and remote operator controls described above are preferably arranged within thepanel165as shown, although other suitable arrangements may be used.

While the invention has been illustrated and described in detail in the drawings and foregoing description, the same is to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive in character, it being understood that only the preferred embodiment has been shown and described and that all changes and modifications that come within the spirit of the invention are desired to be protected.